II. Mark etplace Failures Related to Timing
Thick marketplaces that operate at a time at which transactions can be made efficiently
provide a public good to the participants, by allowing them to compare many
possible transactions. But as with any public good, there is a temptation to free ride, and thus marketplaces often need to be defended in order not to lose their thickness, or their efficient timing. For example, markets can unravel in time, a process by which offers in a labor market gradually become earlier, shorter in duration, and diffuse in time (with the consequence that participants must make decisions before important information is available, and without knowing what other opportunities might be available in the market).
34 Roth and Xing (1994) describe many unraveled
markets, and for many markets identified organizations that try—often with only mixed success—to regulate the time at which marketplaces operate, and often the timing and duration of offers, to prevent free riding and promote efficiency.
35,36
Early offers, like exploding offers, can arise in anticipation of congestion: a firm
that expects to have to make multiple offers may wish to begin early, to have more time. But it can also result from the desire to move before competitors do, and combined with exploding offers it provides a strong negative externality to those competitors (although recipients of early offers may or may not be glad to get them,
rather than waiting for potential later offers). But there is every reason to believe that unraveling results from multiple causes, because markets are multidimensional but time is one-dimensional. Offers can be made only later or earlier, and making offers later than one’s competitors does not affect them in the same way as making early offers to candidates they might have wished to hire themselves, which can lead to escalation and a race to be first.
37
34 The word “unraveling” is meant to bring to mind a property of some simple knitted material: if you pull on a
loose thread, much of the fabric can come undone, it can unravel.

35 Roth and Xing (1994, p. 996) contained the following “generic” description of unraveling (referred to there
as “Stage 1,” often followed by a “Stage 2” at which some market organization tries to specify a time before which
offers should not be made): “Stage 1 begins when the market comes into being (e.g., when a few hospitals begin offering internships, or when federal court clerkships are created by legislation) and the relatively few transactions are made without overt timing problems. By the middle of Stage 1, the market has grown, and some appointments are being made rather early, with some participants finding that they do not have as wide a range of choices as they would like: students have to decide whether to accept early job offers or take a chance and wait for better jobs, and some employers find that not all of the students they are interested in are available by the time they get around to making offers. The trade journals start to be full of exhortations urging employers to wait until the traditional time to make offers, or at least not to make them any earlier next year than this year. Toward the end of Stage 1, the rate of unraveling accelerates, until sometimes quite suddenly offers are being made so early that there are serious difficul-ties in distinguishing among the candidates. There is no uniform time for offers to be made nor is there a customary duration for them to be left open, so participants find themselves facing unnaturally thin markets, and on both sides of the market a variety of strategic behaviors emerge, many of which are regarded as unethical practices. Various organizations concerned with the market may have proposed guidelines intended to regulate it, without notable success. As Stage 1 ends, influential market participants are engaged in a vigorous debate about what can and should be done. From beginning to end, Stage 1 may have covered a period of more than 50 years, or fewer than 1.”

36 The inefficiency of early matching was particularly clear when college football teams used to be matched with
bowls before they had finished playing all their regular season games: this meant that some matches were made before the match quality could be determined, which had a negative effect on television viewership (Fréchette,
Roth, and Ünver 2007).

37 For a variety of approaches to understand particular aspects of early contracting and/or unraveling, such as
its effect on thickness, on information, etc., and/or on market conditions that might promote or deter unraveling, see Roth and Xing (1994), Li and Rosen (1998), Li and Suen (2000, 2004), Kagel and Roth (2000), Suen (2000), Damiano, Li, and Suen (2005), Niederle and Roth (2009), Halaburda (2010), Fainmesser (2013), Niederle, Roth, and Ünver (2013), Du and Livne (2016), Echenique and Pereyra (2016), Ambuel and Groves (2017), Ishii, Oery, and Vigier (2018), and Pan (2018).

