Just as legal markets require social support to thrive, laws banning markets require
social support to have a good chance to be effective. In the United States, marijuana
is still a banned Schedule I drug under Federal law.82 But after a long history as a
popular illegal drug, 30 states and Washington, DC have legalized marijuana in some forms and for at least some uses, and legalization has proceeded in other countries as well.
83 And just as small marketplaces have to accommodate themselves to large
markets, small banned markets are influenced by adjacent legal
mark
etplaces.84 For
example, as of this writing, marijuana remains banned in Idaho, which shares bor -
ders with three states (Washington, Oregon, and Nevada) in which marijuana is
legal for recreational use, and three more (Utah, Wyoming, and Montana) in which some uses of marijuana are legal. I anticipate that enforcement of Idaho’s ban will become more difficult.
85 There are indications that legalization has resulted in harm
reduction: it appears that competition from legal suppliers of marijuana has reduced violent crime in the United States connected with imports of marijuana by criminal organizations in Mexico (Gavrilova, Kamada, and Zoutman forthcoming).
Among the oldest repugnant markets are markets for sex.
86 Prostitution is called
the oldest profession,87 and there is a long history of largely failed attempts to eliminate
it. In many countries prostitution (the selling of sex) is a criminal offense. In Iceland, Norway, and Sweden the purchase of sex has lately been criminalized while the sale has been decriminalized, and in many countries the participation of third
parties (“pimps” or brothels) is outlawed even when the purchase and sale of sex is
legal in at least some venues.
88 In the United States, prostitution is widely illegal,
from sites that are not themselves fully legal; see, e.g., Kral and Davidson (2017) on an “Unsanctioned Supervised
Injection Site in the US.” But see Massachusetts Medical Society (2017) for a proposal to set up a pilot program in the United States. Opponents argue that harm reduction may make drug use more socially acceptable and wide-spread, or even that reducing the risk of death and disease may lessen the disincentives and lead to a growth of addiction.

82 Marijuana (spelled “Marihuana” in Schedule I) seems no longer to fit the legal definition of a Schedule I
drug. Although high quality clinical evidence is not yet available for many therapeutic uses, marijuana is now often prescribed by doctors for relief of pain, and of nausea accompanying chemotherapy, and for these uses the evidence of therapeutic benefits is judged to be “substantial” or “conclusive” (National Academies of Sciences, Engineering,
and Medicine 2017, https://www.nap.edu/read/24625/chapter/6). Marijuana is even sometimes prescribed together with opioid painkillers to reduce their required dose (Cooper et al. forthcoming). The United States is not the only
country with seemingly contradictory laws about marijuana. In the Netherlands, it is legal to buy and sell marijuana, but not to grow it, and so “coffeeshops” legally licensed to sell marijuana must purchase their supplies on the black market (Schuetze 2018).

83 See http://www.governing.com/gov-data/state-marijuana-laws-map-medical-recreational.html and https://
marketdesigner.blogspot.com/search/label/marijuana.

84 Conversely, small legal markets also have to adapt to neighboring illegal markets. For example, the
Netherlands, where marijuana can legally be sold, eventually restricted sales outside of Amsterdam to be only to Dutch residents, to reduce the flow of what was viewed as undesirable “drug tourism” from elsewhere in Europe, and this was eventually upheld by the courts as consistent with EU regulations (Court of Justice of the European Union 2010).

85 In a similar way, states and municipalities in the United States that seek to enforce controls on the sale and
possession of guns face difficulties related to the much freer availability of guns in other jurisdictions.

86 Not all prostitution involves a willing seller, as markets for sex can involve human trafficking of coerced
participants including children (Kotrla 2010). This is a large issue in any discussion of prostitution, often compli-cated, and made contentious by related issues having to do with the rights of sex workers (see, e.g., Butcher 2003; Kempadoo, Sanghere, and Pattanaik 2015). Some of the references for my discussion here can be found at https://marketdesigner.blogspot.com/search/label/sex.

87 See, e.g., a venerable expression of this thought in Kipling’s 1893 story “On the City Wall,” which begins
“Lalun is a member of the most ancient profession in the world.”

88 For a summary of international laws on the sale of sex, see https://prostitution.procon.org/view.resource.
php?resourceID=000772. The site contains a country by country summary, with these high level summary statistics of the countries considered: Legal in 49; Limited Legality in 12; Illegal in 39; Total: 100.

