Figure 12. Percentage Growth in Big Macs per Hour of Work, 2000-2007
Note: See note to Table 5.
Source: Author's calculation.
attractive feature of the BMPH measure of the real wage rate is that it does not rely
on exchange rates at all. It is a direct physical measure of the output a worker may
purchase with an hour of work, and it is comparable over time and across space.
The primary message of Table 5 and the accompanying hgures is that growth in
real wage rates was entirely confined to the developing countries of Russia, India,
and China during the period 2000-2007.
Generally speaking, each country represented in I able 5 displays increases in nom
inal wages and prices. What is remarkable is the dramatic disparity in the growth in
real wages as measured by the BMPH. In both Canada and the United States, the real
wage rate declines somewhat, while in Japan it does not change.15 In contrast, the
growth rate in real wages is over 50 percent in this period in China and India, while
it is over 150 percent in Russia. The choice of 2000 for the start of data collection is
unfortunate in the case of Russia, as it is well known that the Russian financial crisis
in the late 1990s resulted in a collapse in living standards. No doubt some of the mas
sive growth in Russia simply represents a return to previous wage levels.
The cases of India and China, countnes that contain nearly one-halt or the world s
population, are especially noteworthy. There have been many anecdotal conjectures
about the accuracy of Chinese growth as reflected in official accounts. The data in
Table 5 clearly confirm considerable growth in real wage rates in China, averaging
about 9 percent per year.
15Unfortunately, data for some of the countries in the economic region defined as Western Europe in previous  tables was not collected in 2000, so a broad comparison for this region over the period 2000 to 2007 is not possible.  A more detailed analysis at the level of the country, rather than the region, would show a broadly similar conclusion,  but with some growth in real wage rates in Eastern Europe.