there has been increased effort by the (anonymous)  proprietors of EJMR to monitor
the site and remo
ve the nastiest vocabulary, perhaps with automatic filtering.)30
Reaction included a petition addressed to the AEA by the International Association
for Feminist Economics (IAFE 2017), signed by more than 1,000 economists, and a
recommendation by the AEA’s Committee on the Status of Women in the Economics Profession (CSWEP 2017) that the AEA set up an alternative site, to provide some
of the job market information available from EJMR in a less repugnant forum. The idea was that EJMR provided information that some economists were eager to have, but in an unsafe venue for women and others, and that the AEA might provide this information in a safer way. The AEA Executive Committee responded by conduct-ing a survey of department chairs about what kinds of in-progress job market infor -
mation they might be willing to share, and at the 2018 meeting it was decided to produce some non-anonymous websites for job market information in time for the 2018–2019 job market.
31,32
I’ll come back to this idea of moderating the impact of repugnant markets and
marketplaces by organizing competition for them via marketplaces that provide more acceptable alternatives when I speak about efforts to ban some markets, the black markets that arise in response, and the choices this raises about relaxing laws against markets that can’t effectively be eliminated.
To summarize, even these familiar, prosaic institutional features of the job market
for new economists illustrate some issues—like thickness, congestion, safety, and
repugnance—that often arise in the study of markets through their marketplaces, and which require attention when marketplaces are designed (Roth 2008).
33
30 See https://www.econjobrumors.com/topic/kirk-statement-on-recent-events-and-moderation-policy. In the
meantime, there has been an effort to organize information on twitter about the dates by which departments and
other employers finish their interview and flyout calls. See the twitter hashtag #EJMINFO, https://twitter.com/hashtag/ejminfo?lang=en, organized for this purpose in October 2017 by Abigail Wozniak and Kasey Buckles of Notre Dame.

31 See https://www.aeaweb.org/news/statement-of-the-aea-executive-committee-oct-20-2017.
32 By late 2017 the news was also full of other kinds of sexual harassment and assault, some of it clearly crimi-
nal, followed by high profile resignations and firings in industries from movies to tech to the appellate courts. One characteristic of many of these stories is that they began with testimony by one courageous victim, and were quickly followed by many more. There is a market design issue here. If a substantial number of assaults are committed by serial predators, but if there is danger and doubt surrounding an individual report, then it may be possible to make reporting safer and more reliable by allowing reports to be aggregated without announcement until some threshold is reached. One site that attempts to use this model in schools is Callisto (https://www.projectcallisto.org/what-we-do), which seeks to become a clearinghouse for contingent information: “Survivors can help schools identify repeat offenders using Callisto’s matching function. This option allows survivors to store information about their perpetrator under the precondition that it will only be released to the school if another student names the same perpetrator.” In this connection, see also the first 2018 issue of the CSWEP News which focuses on dealing with sexual harassment (CSWEP 2018).

33 Note that similar market institutions can produce different results under different market conditions such as
the balance between supply and demand. The Modern Language Association hosts an annual meeting (at roughly the same time as the ASSA meetings) that serves as a marketplace for interviews between departments of lan-guages and literature and candidates for assistant professorships in those fields. The field also has a centralized medium for job advertisements for full-time positions at 4-year colleges and universities in the Jobs Information List (https://www.mla.org/Resources/Career/Job-Information-List
, b
ut less so for the growing segment of part-time
jobs). See MLA Office of Research (2017) and the prior annual reports (https://www.mla.org/Resources/Career/
Job-Information-List/Reports-on-the-MLA-Job-Information-List). The computerized application processing site Interfolio (https://www.interfolio.com/dossier/) handles applications and letters of reference. But while the market
for new economists enjoys a steadily growing number of new jobs that regularly exceeds the number of new PhDs (see Siegfried 2017), that is not the case in the markets served by the MLA. Consequently the path from PhD to tenure-track academic position is much less reliable and quick in this market (see, e.g., Ehrenberg et al 2009).
Other academic marketplaces are organized differently, and even disciplines with supply and demand more
similar to economics (e.g., computer science) can therefore offer very different experiences to participants.