Open science presents a different, more open-ended kind of engineering problem.
Do the incentives for scientific investigation and publication need to be modified
to keep up with the changing ways science is produced and disseminated? Gall, Ioannidis, and Maniadis (2017) point out that fostering a reliable scientific literature is a market design problem. Scientific journals in particular are market-places for ideas that can experiment with ways of increasing the long-term reliabil-ity of reported results, for example by allowing study designs to be pre-registered, requiring data to be made widely available, encouraging replications, and generally making it easier to identify (and reward) robustly replicable findings.
125
Any list of open questions is necessarily arbitrary and incomplete, but this is par -
ticularly true of engineering challenges. Some kinds of questions can ( eventually)
be answered definitively, but engineering isn’t like that. Pythagoras’s Theorem is as true today as it was when he proved it, and applies as well to modern right triangles as to ancient ones, but the bridges that were built in his time have been replaced by stronger and longer bridges, and today’s bridges will be replaced by better ones in the future. The job of engineering is to use available knowledge to make things work bet-ter, and the market designs of today will be replaced by different designs as our needs change and as we understand better how to achieve our goals. Of course engineer -
ing and science progress together. Market design is going to require reliable domain knowledge about how particular markets work. And, to quote Bob Wilson: “for the theorist, the problems encountered by practitioners provide a wealth of topics.”
126
VII. Concluding Remarks
Markets and marketplaces are like languages; both are ancient human artifacts.
Whole languages are hard to redesign, but smaller parts, e.g., technical vocabularies, are easier. And so it is with marketplaces: a marketplace is a piece of the market, not the whole. Marketplace designers don’t have control over the whole strategy space: market participants have lots of options.
127 And marketplace behavior evolves as
participants gain experience in developing and deploying their strategies. Practical market design must often proceed in advance of reliable theory, and so market designers also need big strategy sets, that include theory, field studies, computation, and experimentation.
128
125 A more parochial issue in the design of the economic literature will be how to accommodate hybrid fields
like market design. We value theory for being simple, elegant, and potentially general, and we value engineering for
taking into account complex potential causes of failure, and these two sets of values sometimes clash. Market design is starting to include a mix of simple tractable models and more detailed models, simulations, and experiments focused on sometimes messy operational procedures.

126 Wilson (1997) as quoted in Holmström, Milgrom, and Roth (2002).
127 This is one of the ways in which practical market design is different from the theoretical literature on
mechanism design, which often assumes that the designer has complete freedom to introduce new mechanisms, and that participants in the economy must interact through these mechanisms. In a wide-ranging Ely Lecture, Hurwicz (1973, p. 27) remarks: “The new mechanisms are somewhat like synthetic chemicals: even if not usable
for practical purposes, they can be studied in a pure form and so contribute to our understanding of the difficulties and potentialities of design.”

128 Nevertheless, in the history of ideas, market design is rooted squarely in the tradition of game theory. Before
game theory, economists focused on systems of prices in commodity-like markets. Game theory gave us tools with which to pay attention to rules. Market design also deals with behavioral economics. Game theory, experimental and behavioral economics, and market design all allow us to look at rules, and how people interact with them, understand them, circumvent them, and change them.

