and may even preclude the existence of impersonal equilibrium prices for individual
licenses. These complex auctions need to match bidders with the right units (and packages) of the licenses being auctioned.
9 Wilson (2002) discusses different complexities
in the markets for electricity, in which the time and place of delivery face (and impose) constraints on the electricity network.
And in many markets, you care with whom you are dealing. In matching mar -
kets, you can’t just choose what you want, even if you can afford it: you also must be chosen.
10 So prices don’t do all the work of deciding who is matched to whom:
marketplaces that serve matching markets must be able to do more than price dis-covery. Regulators take note: because matching marketplaces must do more than marketplaces for commodity markets, they may need to facilitate additional kinds of coordination, and so preserving competition in matching markets may involve different kinds of regulation.
Matchmaking is an old form of market making, but new technologies are making
new kinds of matching markets possible. For example, Airbnb, which matches travelers and hosts, is in many ways an outgrowth of internet technology, while ride-sharing marketplaces like Uber, which match passengers with nearby drivers, depend on smartphones that know the location of the passenger and of available cars.
11 The ride-sharing/taxi markets will be transformed again (likely along with
automobile ownership) when self-driving cars become common (cf. Ostrovsky and Schwarz 2018).
College admissions and labor markets are good examples of matching markets.
12
Prices—i.e., tuition and wages—are important, but they don’t decide who goes to which college or works at which job. You can’t just decide where to study or work, you also have to be admitted or hired. And candidates apply to particular colleges and employers, who in turn make offers to individuals, not to the market at large as when buying and selling wheat futures.
13
9 See McAfee and McMillan (1996) for an early account of spectrum auctions, and see Leyton-Brown, Milgrom,
and Segal (2017) for the interaction between economics and computer science in the design of the incentive auction.

10 In two-sided matching markets, like labor markets, both sides choose and must be chosen. But even in “onesided”
markets in which agents are matched with resources that don’t themselves make any choices, agents may
not be able to simply choose what they want, even if they can afford it. For example, in package auctions, the high bidder on a particular license may not win it if that license turns out to allow a more valuable allocation of all the licenses if assigned differently (see, e.g., Milgrom 2004, 2017).

11 There is starting to be an Uber design literature: see, e.g., Angrist, Caldwell, and Hall (2017), Chen et al.
(2017), and Nikzad (2018).

12 I’ll choose examples disproportionately from my own work, but the flow of market design is becoming wide
and deep. For other directions than I will explore here, see, e.g., Horton (2017) on online labor markets; Cramton (2017), Cramton, Ockenfels, and Stoft (2013), and Wilson (2012) on electricity markets for energy and capacity;
Resnick and Varian (1997), Resnick and Zeckhauser (2002), Bolton, Greiner, and Ockenfels (2013) on reputation
and recommender systems; Ausubel and Milgrom (2002), Ausubel and Baranov (2017), Cramton, Shoham, and Steinberg (2006), and Parkes and Ungar (2000) on combinatorial auctions. See also http://marketdesigner.blogspot.
com/search/label/market%20designers.

13 Formulations exist in which matching markets can clear by prices, but many doubly personalized prices are
needed, since to have a market clearing set of prices, each firm might have to offer a different wage to each worker, both those it hires at equilibrium and those it does not. See, e.g., Kelso and Crawford (1982) and Hatfield et al. (2013). So these prices don’t efficiently decentralize the market in the same way that a small set of equilibrium prices can decentralize a market with many traders (cf. Segal 2007).

