of interviews are conducted. Programs host interviews at their own location, inter -
viewing many candidates on the same day, and applicants travel to many interviews,
paying their own way (and taking time off from medical school or from their current
residency position). The increase in the number of interviews for residencies has grown in tandem with the increased number of applications, due in part to the advent of internet-based applications through the Electronic Residency Application Service (ERAS). There is increasing concern about the number of applications submitted and interviews conducted, both because of the time they take and their costs (see, e.g., Gruppuso and Adashi 2017). This concern is prompting discussions about ways to relieve congestion in the market by reducing the number of interviews.
Possible ways to address this congestion might include limiting the number
of applications each individual can make through ERAS, or limiting the number of interviews each residency or fellowship program can conduct. Either of these approaches might be combined with a signaling mechanism to help guide the matching for interviews. Each of these approaches raises open questions.
61 Past
experience suggests that addressing these practical problems will also lead to new theoretical understanding of the underlying market processes.
62
B. School Choice
Another domain in which clearinghouses organized by the deferred acceptance
algorithm now play a large role is in school choice. Atila Abdulkadiro˘ glu, Parag Pathak, and I helped New York City organize the clearinghouse they have used for high school admissions each year since it was introduced for students entering high school in the Fall of 2004 (Abdulkadiro˘ glu, Pathak, and Roth 2005, 2009). It replaced a congested, decentralized process in which schools made independent admissions decisions, and many students were assigned administratively to schools over which they had expressed no preference when the process ran out of time. The NYC school choice problem resembled those facing medical labor markets, with active strategic players on both sides of the market, because school principals in
61 The main issue is how any of these interventions to reduce interview congestion would impact the final match
outcomes. Ashlagi, Nikzad, and Romm (2015) show how constraining applicants to submit short preference lists
can have welfare improving effects when true preferences are uncorrelated. In the uncorrelated case, applicants can be advised to submit truncated preference lists that include as many of their top choices as allowed. When preferences are correlated, however, it is unclear how to advise applicants who are not likely to be highly preferred by their top choices. Ashlagi et al. (2017) point to ways in which signaling could be useful in choosing interviews, and in organizing rank order lists. And it remains to be seen how many residency and fellowship programs would be willing to limit their interviewing if their competitors did likewise, since the large strategy sets available on both sides of the market might make enforcement of interview limits difficult (e.g., “if you happen to find yourself in our city, drop by to meet us informally…”).

62 A lot of matching theory has been motivated by applications. See, for example, the Rural Hospital Theorem
(Roth 1986) which says that the requirement that a matching be stable essentially determines the assignment of res-idents to those hospitals that can’t fill all their positions. (But see Agarwal 2017 for some policy options regarding rural hospitals, and Kamada and Kojima 2015 for some design issues that arise in connection with rural hospitals in Japan. See also Fragiadakis and Troyan 2017 on some properties of matchings that require certain numbers of positions to be filled.) Similarly, observations that the set of stable matchings is small in most applications have led to new theoretical understanding of why that is so (Kojima and Pathak 2009; Ashlagi et al. 2017). Extensions of the models to matching with contracts have led to connections with general equilibrium theory, and relaxation of the assumption of two-sidedness (Kelso and Crawford 1982; Hatfield and Milgrom 2005; Ostrovsky 2008), and to the observations that the set of stable matchings may often be large in matching with contracts (Hassidim, Romm, and Shorrer 2017b). The empirical study of matching markets has also led to the development of new econometric tools: see, e.g., the study of how doctors evaluate residency programs by Agarwal (2015).

