NYC play an active role in admissions. So the stability of the resulting matching
was an important feature of the design: there was evidence that in the prior system, which did not produce stable matchings, school principals sometimes concealed places from the NYC Department of Education, to be able to match later with stu-dents they preferred to those to whom they might otherwise have been assigned.
Data from the preferences over schools that students submit to the current clear -
inghouse allow Abdulkadiro˘ glu, Agarwal, and Pathak (2017) to compare the welfare effects of the matchings produced by the centralized school choice system to those under the old, “uncoordinated” admissions. Using the (ordinal) rank order lists submitted by students, they assess welfare by estimating a cardinal random utility model, with trade-offs among school attributes measured in terms of the additional distance a student is willing to travel to be at a more preferred school.
63 They find
that the students placed administratively when the old congested system ran out of time were generally placed in less desirable schools than those over which they had expressed preferences. Furthermore, in the old system there was more “recon-tracting,” in which students ultimately entered different schools than those to which they had been assigned, than in the new system. They find that the new system improves welfare over the old by 80 percent of the gains that could be achieved by a utility-maximizing allocation made independent of stability constraints, and that changes in the algorithm (e.g., choosing a different stable matching, among the multiple that arise from random tie-breaking) would have very little additional effect on welfare.
64
The biggest difference is that under the old system, only about one-half of the
students were placed in the “main round” (now occupied by the deferred acceptance algorithm), whereas in the new system this number climbed to over 80 percent in the first year (with additional subsequent gains). So students who used to be assigned administratively are now largely assigned by the deferred acceptance algorithm to a school over which they have expressed a preference. That turns out to be much better for them than assignment without regard to their preferences.
63 New econometric techniques have had to be developed to use the randomness involved in tie-breaking in
school choice to help evaluate outcomes: see Abdulkadiro˘ glu et al. (2017). In analyzing NYC school choice, use
was made of the fact that it is a dominant strategy for students to state their true preferences. This is of course different from an empirical statement that students’ submitted preferences always reflect their true preferences, and recently there has been a stream of work on this, much of it taking flight from Li (2017) on the distinction between strategy-proof and “obviously strategy-proof” mechanisms. Stable matching mechanisms are not obvi-ously strategy-proof (Ashlagi and Gonczarowski 2016), and recent empirical work has focused on identifying cases in which some submitted preferences can be identified as departing from the likely underlying preferences, see, e.g., Rees-Jones (2017, 2018), Rees-Jones and Skowronek (2018), Hassidim et al. (2017), and Shorrer and Sóvágó (2017). This work supports the conclusion that the instructions that accompany a mechanism (e.g., regarding strat-egy-proofness) are an important part of its design, and that effective instructions may be hard to design. (An almost opposite approach looks at relaxations of strategy-proofness rather than refinements, see, e.g., Azevedo and Budish
2017 on strategy-proofness in the limit as markets grow large, and Kannan et al. 2015 on strategy-proofness in the limit when capacity constraints need to be respected only to a close approximation.)

64 The study of tie-breaking became an important part of the design of school choice systems because schools
have only coarse preferences over students, and so a school may not have capacity to admit all students in the same indifference class. Ties are typically broken by random lottery. But turning weak preferences over students into strict preferences creates the appearance of new blocking pairs, and changes the stable matching chosen by the deferred acceptance algorithm. A substantial effort has gone into understanding this and related matters connected to stable matchings, see, e.g., Erdil and Ergin (2008, 2017), Abdulkadiro˘ glu
, P
athak, and Roth (2009), and Ashlagi,
Nikzad, and Romm (2015). See Kesten (2010) for a related relaxation of stability. Motivated by school choice, Azevedo and Leshno (2016) formulate a model with a finite number of schools but a continuum of students, and
characterize stable matchings simply by cutoffs for each school, that function something like prices.

