chances in the larger, later marketplace.24 Other employers choose not to inter -
view at the meetings, but to wait and perhaps hire some talented individual who
“fell through the cracks” amidst the crowded interview schedules. So the meetings provide some services to the broader market, but the strategy sets of participants are large, and they can choose to do without those services, and not participate in that marketplace.
25
Finally, note that some marketplaces in a larger market may be repugnant, in the
sense that although they are attractive to some participants, others not only don’t wish to participate themselves but think that such marketplaces should not operate at all (Roth 2007). This kind of repugnance can occur even in the absence of easily measurable negative externalities to those who would like to eliminate such a mar -
ketplace (Ambuehl, Niederle, and Roth 2015). The kidney transplant marketplaces
I’ll discuss later have been fundamentally shaped by the repugnance, enshrined in law, toward buying and selling organs.
26 But until recently I would have been hard
pressed to name a part of the market for economists that was viewed as repugnant by other economists. Lately, however, the website Economics Job Market Rumors (EJMR
27) has achieved that distinction.
The site started as an anonymous internet discussion board focused on the job
market, with threads devoted to particular candidates, schools, subfields of econom-ics, etc., including anonymously sourced rumors about which schools were inter -
viewing, flying out, and offering jobs to which junior candidates. Over time it also featured discussions of other aspects of academic economics, and discussions of any-thing else someone wished to discuss. As has happened with many other anonymous and pseudonymous internet sites, the tone of the discussion sharply deteriorated, and many of the posts became attacks on particular individuals, often in misogynistic, homophobic, anti-Semitic, or racist language.
28 The matter became widely known
among economists after an undergraduate thesis, Wu (2017), which cataloged the
prevalence of misogynistic language and critical comments about individual women on the site, was discussed in a NY Times column.
29 (As of this writing it appears that
24 It was not always so. “The major job market for new business-school professors of marketing is organized
around the summer meetings of the American Marketing Association. The market thus occurs a little over a year in
advance of the date for which the positions are to be filled. This was not always the case: in the 1950s the American Marketing Association still held its market-oriented meeting at the Allied Social Sciences meetings [then] between Christmas and New Year’s Day.” (Roth and Xing 1994, p. 1014.) Cawley (2017) also describes a small “preemp-tive” market in economics prior to the ASSA meetings.

25 See B. Roth and Shorrer (2017) on designing centralized marketplaces—“mediators”—that interact well with
preexisting decentralized markets (and cf. Ashlagi, Monderer and Tennenholtz 2007).

26 Ambuehl and Ockenfels (2017) investigate how this repugnance might arise from concerns that incentives
interfere with informed consent.

27 https://www.econjobrumors.com/
28 Similarly, on another internet domain entirely, Microsoft had to quickly withdraw an artificial intelligence
“chatbot” designed to automatically learn how to contribute to internet conversations from those that it encountered on Twitter. See, e.g., Christopher Heine, “Microsoft’s Chatbot ‘Tay’ Just Went on a Racist, Misogynistic, Anti-Semitic Tirade,” AdWeek, March 24, 2016. One of the founders of Twitter, Evan Williams, was interviewed in the
New York Times, who quote him thus: “I thought once everybody could speak freely and exchange information and ideas, the world is automatically going to be a better place,” Mr. Williams says. “I was wrong about that.”
(
See
David Streitfeld, “The Internet Is Broken: @ev Is Trying to Salvage It,” New York Times, May 20, 2017.)
29 See Justin Wolfers, “Evidence of a Toxic Environment for Women in Economics,” New York Times, August
18, 2017.
