related labor markets, and in school choice. But they have remained a relatively rare
form of marketplace in the economy at large.
One feature of the markets that have adopted these clearinghouses is that almost
all the positions to be filled become vacant at the same time, and most of the appli-cants for these positions come from an easily identified set of candidates, who apply for very few other kinds of positions and who make up the lion’s share of those hired for these positions. (Thus, most medical graduates go on to residency positions, most medical subspecialty fellowships are filled by candidates who have already become certified in the underlying specialty, most eighth graders need to be assigned to high schools, etc.) Prior to adopting a centralized clearinghouse, each of these markets also struggled with establishing and maintaining thickness and/or dealing with congestion.
Another reason we don’t see so many centralized clearinghouses may be that
when preference formation is very costly, eliciting preferences in advance may not be feasible. For example, in senior labor markets, preferences over possible posi-tions may involve additional searches, for jobs for spouses and schools for children. These additional searches may often be too costly to launch over a wide range of possible positions, and so may be feasible only late in the recruiting process, or following receipt of a job offer, when the search can be focused on a small number of possibilities. Similarly, when employers consider very diverse pools of candi-dates, or candidates consider very diverse kinds of employment, the difficulties in organizing participation in a clearinghouse by the relevant candidates and firms may be insurmountable. As a practical matter, an existing marketplace often has to be performing very badly before a major reorganization becomes attractive to many participants, since otherwise it is difficult for a redesign to be a Pareto improvement that lifts all boats or most of them (and because some market participants may have invested in dealing with the current market environment).
72 So there will be markets
for which this kind of centralized clearinghouse may not be feasible, as well as those for which this form of organization may not be appropriate.
73
72 For example, when appellate judges are hiring future clerks in their third year of law school, judges in less
prestigious circuits may prefer a market in which they can go earlier than the rules permit, but when clerks are being
hired in their first year of law school, all judges may prefer a system of late hiring. Similarly, when the market for gastroenterology fellowships was unraveled, it also broke into many local markets, with fellows often being hired by programs at the hospital at which they did their internal medicine residency. This could work to the advantage of a not so prestigious fellowship program at a hospital with a top residency program, so moving to a later, more national market was likely not a Pareto improvement, and faced some opposition from such programs.

73 For example, new MBA’s find work with a large variety of employers, whose hiring also includes many other
kinds of candidates, so the problem of coordinating a centralized clearinghouse for MBA employment would be difficult. It would likely also be difficult to coordinate a clearinghouse that worked from submitted preferences for new assistant professors, because preference formation is very costly for departments (involving flyouts and seminars attended by the full faculty), so it seems likely that many departments would not prefer having to form longer lists of preferences. However admissions of students at various points in their education (undergraduates, graduate students, and students in professional schools like medicine, law, and business) all seem like candidates for a centralized match, since they all suffer to some extent from congestion. It may be, however, that the current problems are not severe enough to motivate widespread enthusiasm for changing existing admissions practices. There may also be markets in which matchings based on (prior) preferences may be considered undesirable. For this reason, Duke University decided to no longer allow first-year undergraduate students to participate in choosing their roommates, and instead now plans to match roommates randomly, to produce more diverse matchings (see http://marketdesigner.blogspot.com/2018/03/duke-switches-to-random-roommate.html).

