functioning of markets.2 Armed with this understanding, economists can sometimes
help build new marketplaces or repair those that are broken.
In this essay, I’ll try to illustrate some principles of market design, point to some
questions worth further study, and show how the study of marketplaces opens new
windows through which to view markets.3 Market design has also opened up new
ways for economists to earn their livings.4
I want to emphasize the view that marketplaces—which consist of infrastructure,
rules, and customs through which information is exchanged and transactions are made—can be relatively small parts of large markets. Participants may have large strategy sets, i.e., many options available to them, beyond those available in any particular marketplace.
Because marketplaces serve many different kinds of markets, different marketplaces
have different tasks to accomplish. Practical market design that aims to design marketplaces that will be adopted, implemented, and maintained can be thought of as a kind of economic engineering, so details matter.
5 But, as with other kinds of
engineering, although each application may demand custom design, there are com-mon issues that many marketplaces have to deal with to be successful, and so there are also general lessons to be learned. And (also as with other kinds of engineering) sometimes these lessons are learned most clearly from marketplace failures, i.e., from marketplaces whose (poor) design impedes market efficiency. (So it isn’t nec-essarily the most important markets that yield the most useful lessons.)
Marketplace design (or even design economics) might sometimes be a more
descriptive name for the emerging field of market design.
6 However, although I
didn’t choose the name, I’ve been glad of the opportunity it has given me to defend the notion that “markets” come in many varieties, and are not only or even primarily commodity markets whose only job is price discovery.
Commodity markets are themselves a great invention, which allow trade to be
conducted safely with relatively anonymous counterparties, with prices doing all
untrimmed stones to make ax heads are much heavier than the finished tools, we can conjecture that the primary
marketplaces for these far-reaching markets were located near the quarries, and were marketplaces for the finished tools.

2 The study of marketplaces and market design has close predecessors in parts of IO and finance, e.g., in the
study of market microstructure. See, e.g., the papers presented at the recent NBER Conference on Competition and the Industrial Organization of Securities Markets (http://papers.nber.org/sched/CIOf17), and papers focusing on marketplaces as platforms, e.g., Rochet and Tirole (2003) or Eisenmann, Parker, and Van Alstyne (2006).

3 This essay isn’t meant to substitute for a survey of the fast growing field of market design. Recent overviews of
market design include Biró (2017); Kominers, Teytelboym, and Crawford (2017); Ashlagi (2018); and Eisenmann
and Kominers (2018). The Handbook of Market Design edited by Vulkan, Neeman, and Roth (2013) is aimed at
an academic audience. Roth (2015b) is targeted at a general audience. Two new textbooks are Bichler (2018) and Haeringer (2018). Roth (2016) reviews some uses of laboratory and field experiments in market design. I regularly
update my market design blog at http://marketdesigner.blogspot.com/.

4 We can see this in the widening role that “chief economists” play. In the twentieth century, firms that had
chief economists were mostly banks and investment firms, and those economists forecast inflation and market conditions. Today a growing number of chief economists are market designers in tech companies. For example, chief economists among those whose work is cited in this essay include Peter Coles at Airbnb, Hal Varian at Google and Michael Schwarz at Microsoft, where his predecessors with that title were Preston McAfee and Susan Athey. Preston had earlier been the chief economist at Yahoo!Research, while Michael was previously the chief economist at Google Cloud.

5 Duflo (2017) proposes plumbing as an analogy for the detailed operational issues involved in implementation
and maintenance.

6 The subtitle of my paper “The Economist as Engineer” was “Game Theory, Experimentation, and Computation
as Tools for Design Economics” (Roth 2002).

