


---Economics-1942-0-01.txt---
I
In 1940, output per man-hour in American nonagricultural industries
was roughly double that of 1920. In few periods of history has capacity
to produce goods grown more rapidly than in the last twenty years. The
industrial research staffs of American business in 1940 were nine times
as large as in 1920, and so also were expenditures on research. At no
time in the country's history had its capacity to increase production
been so great. And yet the community which possessed this unparalleled
productive capacity to improve methods and products did not glory in
its strength. It was perplexed and baffled. Instead of looking forward
confidently to achieving ever rising standards of living, it dreaded the
future. It asked whether investment opportunities were becoming per-
manently insufficient, whether the rules for achieving prosperity were
undergoing fundamental changes, whether new conditions were making
its economic institutions no longer workable.
This sense of doubt and inadequacy did not exist, in the United States
at least, before 1929. It was created by the depression and by the dis-
appointing recovery. The great national effort required by the war may
prove to be precisely what is needed to restore the country's faith in its
capacity to master great problems. Nevertheless, the task of winning
the peace requires that we face frankly the questions raised by the de-
pression and the disappointing recovery. Is it true that new conditions-
the decline in geographical expansion, the drop in population growth,
shifts in economic and political power, and changes in public policy-
are radically altering the problem of maintaining employment, so that
plans for the post-war world must envisage important changes in policies
and institutions? The thesis of these remarks is that the answer to this
question is a qualified Yes.


---Economics-1942-0-02.txt---
II
Since the questions under consideration were first raised in this
country by the disappointing recovery from the depression, it is con-
venient to begin our survey by a brief examination of some of the
circumstances affecting recovery.
Whatever may be the ultimate effects of the decline in geographical
expansion or the drop in the growth of population, neither of these
influences appears to explain the depression or the disappointing re-
covery. Of course, it would have helped had there been another Missis-
sippi Valley to develop. But no sudden change occurred in the state of
our natural resources between the twenties and the thirties. Further-
more, older and more developed countries experienced a milder depres-
sion and recovered more completely.2 As for the spectacular drop in the
rate of population growth between the twenties and the thirties, evidence
is lacking that it produced either an unfavorable shift in the consump-
tion function or an unfavorable change in the slope of the function.
Indeed, the number of non-employed persons per member of the work-
ing force has shown no appreciable, change in forty years.3 The possi-
bility that drop in the population growth might have retarded expansion
by limiting the opportunity to widen capital is excluded partly by the fact
that the increase in the number of families dropped only slightly, and
partly by the large and persistent unemployment which characterized
the period. As far as the labor supply was concerned, ample opportunity
to widen capital existed.
III
To a considerable extent the depression and the unsatisfactory re-
covery are explained by conditions which do not reflect permanent
changes in the economic environment. Failure of banks was probably
the most important single influence in making the depression more
severe in the United States than in most other countries. No one would
contend, however, that the vulnerability of our banking system to
depression was a necessary or permanent condition. The very severity
of the depression and the bank failures which accompanied it were them-
selves major impediments to recovery. Consider their effect in diminish-
ing the fortunes of thousands of local capitalists and in making these
men reluctant to risk the remainder of their resources. Small local
2By 1936, when 20 out of 23 countries reporting industrial production to the League
of Nations had surpassed the output of 1929, industrial production in the United
States was still 7 per cent below 1929. This country was in twenty-first place out of
23 countries in recovery from 1929. The industrial production in the United Kingdom
in 1936 was 15.8 per cent above 1929; in Sweden, 35.0 per cent; in Finland, 39.0 per
cent; in Denmark, 30.0 per cent; in Hungary, 18.4 per cent.


---Economics-1942-0-03.txt---
capitalists have always been an important dynamic influence in the
economy.4 The bank failures and other special circumstances were also
largely responsible for the great amount of distress housing which hung
over the market until 1937. This prolonged the depression in residential
building long after the rest of the economy had revived. In the absence
4Some indirect evidence of the effect of the depression upon local capitalists is
provided by the income tax returns. For example, if one compares the volume of income
after taxes in 1931 and 1935, two years in which the national income was about 55
billion dollars, one finds that incomes of $25,000 or more in the former year totaled
1.9 billion dollars, and in the latter, 1.5 billion dollars, or 21.9 per cent less. (Imre de
Vegh, "Savings, Investment, and Consumption," Am. Econ. Rev., Suppl., vol. xxx,
Feb., 1941, p. 238.) These figures do not allow for capital gains and losses. Since the
year 1931 was one in which capital losses were large, the realized incomes of over
$25,000 before capital losses in 1931 were undoubtedly considerably more than 1.9 billion
dollars.
An impediment to recovery after 1933 that has been neglected is the scarcity of
business savings. The principal source of venture capital always has been the plowed-back
earnings of business enterprises. These have always been the spearhead of expansion, the
prerequisite for drawing in funds from the outside. Although individual corporations
were able to save, corporations as a whole had no savings in the entire period from 1929 to
1939. And between 1935 and 1938, dividend disbursements exceeded earnings by a billion a  year.
Corporations failed to save in the main because during the twenties they had
established high dividend rates which they were attempting to restore. The disburse-
ments of dividends were encouraged in 1936 and 1937 by the undistributed profits tax.
Of course, enterprises had depreciation allowances, but there were severe demands upon
these because of the postponed maintenance from the worst years of the depression.
Even when allowance is made for funds from depreciation allowances, the amounts
available for reinvestment by corporations in 1935 and 1936 were far smaller than in
1923, when the national income was comparable in amount. In 1923, undistributed
profits and depreciation of non-financial corporations were 5.3 billion dollars. In 1935
and 1936, undistributed profits, depreciation, and depletion were $2.0 billions and
$2.7 billions respectively. (T.N.E.C., Hearings, Part 9, "Savings and Investment," p.
4039, Exhibit 582.)
An important aspect of plowed-back earnings is that they are venture capital. They
increase the equity of the business owners. Plowed-back earnings must be regarded as an
even more important dynamic influence than the investments of the well-to-do. In the five
years, 1922 to 1927, for example, business savings were 13.4 billion dollars. (S. Kuznets,
National Income and Capital Formation, 1919-1935, p. 24.) Income of persons receiving
more than $25,000 a year (after the payment of federal income taxes) in the same
period was 21.9 billion dollars. (Imre de Vegh, loc. cit.) If we assume that half of the
incomes above $25,000 were saved, the investment-seeking funds from this source in
the period 1922 to 1927, were not quite 11 billion dollars.
Many economists have regarded business savings as a deflationary influence. In
periods of contraction they probably are. The view that they are always a deflationary
influence overlooks the fact that expansion begins with the plowing back of earnings.
This is a preliminary step to getting outside capital. This is why business savings con-
stitute the spearhead of expansion. In order to judge the full effect of plowing back of
earnings, one must allow for its contagious effect. An expansion or improvement by one
competitor compels rivals to make investment in an attempt to hold their position. This
involves a "multiplier" which is different from the consumption multiplier used by
Keynes. The Keynesian multiplier is based upon the amount of additional consumption
which will be induced by a given expansion of investment. The investment multiplier indi-
cates the additional investment that will be directly induced by a given expansion of
investment.


---Economics-1942-0-04.txt---
of this distress housing, building construction in the period 1934 to
1937 would undoubtedly have been two to three times the rate which
prevailed. Since housing has always been the most important single out-
let for investment-seeking funds, the persistence of the depression in
housing was a main deterrent to recovery.5
But conditions of a more permanent nature have influenced the re-
covery. The depression produced, or at least greatly accelerated, shifts
in economic and political power which are likely to be permanent and
it enormously stimulated the making of economic policy by the govern-
ment. These shifts in power and changes in public policy not only
affected recovery from the depression, but altered the long-run problem
of giving employment. It is important to examine their influence.
IV
On the whole, the shift in economic and political power impeded re-
covery. It did this in three principal ways. In the first place, the very
fact that a great shift in power was going on created uncertainty con-
cerning the long-term yield on capital and hence created an abnormal
preference for short-term production plans. In this way, uncertainty
narrowed investment opportunity and reduced temporarily the marginal
return on capital.6
In the second place, the shift in economic power altered in many
plants the control of managements over labor costs and increased the
difficulty of converting a rise of output into profits. It is instructive to
compare the revival of profits after 1934 with the revival after 1921-
two years in which national income was about 50 billion dollars. In
1921, non-financial corporations had a deficit of 355 million dollars,
in contrast with a profit of 884 million dollars in 1934. Between 1921
and 1923, a rise of the national income of 17.2 billion dollars to a level
of 70 billion dollars produced a 5.5 billion-dollar gain in the profits of
non-financial corporations. Between 1934 and 1937, a slightly larger


---Economics-1942-0-05.txt---
rise in the national income (21.1 billion dollars) to a level of 71.4 billion
dollars produced a gain of 3 billion dollars in profits. When profits come
hard, the disposition to venture is weak.
The lesser success of enterprises in converting a rise of business into
profits after 1933 than after 1921 is explained by a variety of circum-
stances, but very largely by the movements of labor efficiency and
wages. Physical productivity per man-hour grew twice as fast after 1921
as after 1933 or 1934, but wage rates went up twice as rapidly in the
second period as in the first. These differences were not entirely com-
pensated by price movements.7
V
During the period when shifts in economic power and public policy
substantially reduced the attractiveness of long-range plans, government
fiscal policy was developing in ways that greatly reduced the marginal
efficiency of capital and especially diminished the attractiveness of ven-
tures involving considerable uncertainty and risk. To begin with, a large
deficit in the regular budget persisted undiminished, except for one year,
"Between 1921 and 1923, man-hour productivity in manufacturing increased 3.06 per
cent per year as against 2.0 per cent between 1934 and 1937. In mineral industries it
increased 7.1 per cent a year in the first period and 5.0 per cent in the second; in
railroading, 4.3 per cent in the first period, and 3.8 per cent in the second. (S. Bell,
Productivity, Wages, and National Income, pp. 269, 27 1, 274.) Hourly earnings in
manufacturing increased 3.2 per cent between 1921 and 1923, according to the
National Industrial Conference Board. Between 1934 and 1937, hourly earnings in
manufacturing increased 15.7 per cent according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics,
and 19.6 per cent according to the National Industrial Conference Board.
In some respects it is more satisfactory to compare the period 1921 to 1926 with the
period 1933 to 1937. In the first period man-hour productivity in manufacturing increased
4.3 per cent a year as against 1.7 per cent in the second; in the mineral industries, it
increased 8.0 per cent a year in the first period and 3.7 per cent in the second; in
railroading, it increased 3.3 per cent per year in the first period and 3.0 per cent in
the second. Between 1921 and 1926, hourly earnings in manufactuiring rose 8.4 per cent;
between 1933 and 1937, 40 per cent.
In the case of electric light and power, productivity per man-hour apparently increased
more rapidly following 1933 than following 1921-6.9 per cent a year between 1933 and
1937, instead of 2.8 per cent a year as between 1921 and 1926. The actual difference was
probably considerably less than the figures indicate because there was much more
construction in the industry in 1926 than in 1937. Some of the construction is done by
outside contractors whose employees are not counted as in the industry. Much of it,
however, is done by employees of the utilities. As the construction is not counted as
part of the product of the industry, the use of employees of the industry tends to reduce
the output per man-hour. The changing proportion of employees working on non-current
operations (together with the changing proportion engaged on maintenance and repairs
as maintenance is now postponed and then accelerated) makes all figures on man-hour
productivity more or less unreliable. In the case of comparisons between 1921-26 on
the one hand, and 1933-37 on the other, the changes in construction and in maintenance
policy probably cause the difference in increase in efficiency to appear to be less than it
really was.
Finished goods declined relative to raw materials in both recoveries (as is usual)


---Economics-1942-0-06.txt---
in the face of a substantial rise in the national income and of large in-
creases in taxes. Deficit financing is too new to be well understood. We
are still in the stage of trying to find out why the course of events does
not correspond to the theoretical models. Nevertheless, it is possible to
see why deficit financing at the best is an unreliable device and why it
may do little good and may even impede an expansion of privately pro-
duced income. Since the saving function is considerably more elastic
relative to national income than the investment function, a relatively
large deficit is necessary to raise the national income by a small amount.
But a deficit may cause the investment function to shift to the left,
especially if it arouses the expectation of higher taxes and if the govern-
ment has manifested a strong propensity to tax profits. In this event, all
or nearly all of the stimulus of the deficit may be canceled.8 When
but more so in the second recovery than in the first. The following are the indexes of
wholesale prices of raw materials and finished goods:
A comparison of 1926 and 1937 is of interest. Output per man-hour in manufacturing in
1937 was apparently 33.2 per cent above 1926, hourly earnings 22.4 per cent above 1926.
Finished goods were slightly higher relative to raw materials than in 1926. Nevertheless,
non-financial corporations made profits of only 3.8 billion dollars on sales of 108.4 billion
dollars in 1937, as against profits of 5.8 billion dollars on sales of 106.2 billion dollars in
1926-a margin of 3.54 cents per dollar of sales in 1937 and of 5.44 cents in 1926.

---Economics-1942-0-07.txt---
neither rising national income nor rising tax rates reduced the deficit,
who could avoid concluding that substantially higher taxes were ahead,
and that, in view of the record, they might fall in substantial measure
on profits?
To the influence of the deficit in producing an unfavorable shift in
the investment function must be added tax changes well designed to
discourage innovations and experimentation and to reduce the attrac-
tiveness of risky ventures. Between 1929 and 1936, the effective rate of
the corporate income tax was virtually doubled.9 It is no answer to say
that the tax is eventually shifted, because it is passed on only by re-
stricting the volume of investment. And since corporate profits are
produced in a large measure by innovation and experimentation, doub-
ling the tax on corporate profits amounted to doubling the tax on innova-
tion and experimentation.
Some changes in tax laws were especially well designed to penalize
chance-taking. The loss carry-over provision in the corporate income
tax was limited to one year in 1932, abolished in 1933, and not restored
until 1938. Capital losses, which had been fully deductible up to 1932,
were deductible only to a very restricted degree throughout the entire
critical period between 1932 and 1938.
Similar changes on an even more drastic scale were made in indi-
vidual income tax rates. Until 1932, the highest surtax rate was 20
per cent, applicable on incomes over $100,000. In 1932 surtaxes were
greatly raised. They were raised again in 1934 and 1936. Dividends
from corporations were made subject to the normal tax in 1936. By
1938, the normal tax and surtax took 35 per cent of additional income
immediately above $50,000; 51 per cent immediately above $74,000;
and 62 per cent immediately above $100,000. How drastically tax in-
creases reduced the marginal returns on investments in equities by the
persons who did the most saving is illustrated by the fact that by 1938
a man with an income of $50,000 would need a yield of 8 per cent
before his tax to obtain a return of 5.4 per cent. At the same time, the
capital loss provisions of the income tax were modified to narrow greatly
the opportunity to deduct capital losses.'0 In other words, the govern-
them seems to have been a conjunction of persistent deficits with a disposition to increase
those taxes which must directly limit the marginal efficiency of capital.

---Economics-1942-0-08.txt---
ment was greatly increasing the difficulty of adding to one's capital by
successful ventures and at the same time was severely limiting the possi-
bility of charging unsuccessful ventures against successful ones. Can
one imagine a better arrangement for encouraging investors to avoid
venturesome commitments?
VI
What of the long-range outlook? If to shifts in economic and political
power, which have already created difficult problems, is added a nar-
rowed opportunity for extensive investment, does not the problem of
providing employment become so formidable as to require great changes
in policies and institutions?
One may assert with reasonable confidence, I think, that the con-
sumption function will slowly become more favorable to employment.
For more than a generation the propensity to consume has been rising
just about fast enough to prevent the increase in per capita incomes
from causing a drop in the proportion of the national income currently
consumed. It is noteworthy, however, that in the twenties, despite the
rapid rise in per capita income, capital formation was relatively less
than in the preceding decade-19.6 per cent of gross product as against
22.8 per cent." In the post-war world, the propensity to consume will
be higher than in the twenties. Corporations will be hampered, as they
have been for nearly a decade, in devoting part of their income to capital
per cent a,- a loss. The act of 1932 greatly restricted the deduction of short-term losses and
the act of 1934 restricted the deductions of all capital losses to the amount of capital gains
plus $2,000.
Mr. Alexander Sachs stresses the deterring effects in the act of 1938 of the disconnection
between long-term and short-term gains and losses. If a long-term gain and a short-term
loss are realized in the same year, the latter cannot be used to offset the former. Furthermore,
if the short-term gain is not realized, the enterpriser is exposed to the danger that, in the
event of the gain's becoming a loss, it can be credited only to the extent of 15 per cent or
20 per cent.


---Economics-1942-0-09.txt---
formation by pressure from stockholders to maintain dividend rates.'2
Post-war tax collections by the federal government will probably be at
least twice pre-war. The additional amounts will be collected largely
from the middle incomes.13 Much of the saving of recent years has been
temporary rather than permanent. This is true of the saving repre-
sented by premiums for life insurance, annuities, and pensions which
in the main are intended to be consumed rather than to provide perma-
nent sources of income. Benefit payments of life insurance companies
are gradually catching up with their premium receipts and eventually
the difference between the two will be little greater than the operating
expenses of the companies."4
Too much importance, however, must not be attached to prospective
changes in the consumption function. If there is a decline in the dis-
position to take risks in order to increase capital, and a rise in the desire
to avoid risks in order to conserve capital, a drop in thriftiness may be
accompanied by a rise in unemployment."5 The large shift in the con-


---Economics-1942-0-10.txt---
sumption function in the United Kingdom between the pre-World War
and the post-World War decades, as indicated by Colin Clark's esti-
mates, did not prevent the persistence of a large amount of unemploy-
ment throughout the twenties.16 Too much attention has been paid by
recent economic theory to mere changes in the amount of thriftiness and
too little to changes in the kind of thriftiness and to shifts in the pro-
pensity to invest.'7
VII
The effect of the drop in the rate of population growth upon invest-
ment opportunity might seem to depend in the main upon how rapidly
the marginal return on capital falls as capital per worker increases.
Except for the investigations of Douglas, little work has been done on
this point. The problem, of course, is not how marginal efficiency of
investment behaves under static conditions but how it behaves under
the rate and kind of technological change and the price movements that
may be expected to occur. It is highly probable (though not inevitable)
that technological change will increase the amount of capital that each
worker can advantageously manage because inventions consist largely
of making apparatus more automatic and adding automatic attach-
ments. Douglas estimates that an increase of 270 per cent in fixed capi-
tal per worker in manufacturing between 1899 and 1922 was accom-
panied by a drop of 44 per cent in the marginal physical productivity
of capital."S This is not a rapid drop and it occurred when technological
research was on a far smaller scale than it is now. It is interesting to
observe that the drop in the marginal physical productivity of capital
was accompanied by a large rise in interest rates.'9 This contrast be-
tween the movement of interest rates and the marginal physical pro-
ductivity of capital suggests in how great measure the marginal return
sufficient to provide plant and equipment necessary to enable the increment of workers to
earn the prevailing scale of wages.


---Economics-1942-0-11.txt---
on capital is determined by price trends and by expectations.20 Of
course, if the United States by any chance were able to arrange its
affairs to permit the exportation of capital on a considerable scale in
the post-war world, the problem of opportunities for extensive invest-
ment would be a generation or two in the future.
Technological research is growing rapidly, as the ninefold increase
in personnel in twenty years indicates, and it will undoubtedly con-
tinue to grow rapidly. Indeed it must now be regarded as one of the
most important instruments of economic adjustment. But even today
there are only about 3,500 industrial research laboratories in the coun-
try. Out of over 100 billion dollars of sales by corporations only 300
million dollars goes into industrial research, or less than one-third of
one per cent. Virtually half of all industrial research is done by four
industries-chemicals, petroleum, electrical apparatus, and electrical
communications. In 1940, there were about 15,000 chemists in industry
and about the same number of engineers, but only 2,000 physicists.21
Some people believe that the present war will put the physicists into
industry in much the same way that World War I put the chemists into
industry. Private enterprise has never yet had to face squarely the
question of whether it is able to provide over the long term the amount
of employment which the community expects. When it is confronted
with this question, the expansion of industrial research may be consider-
able. Likewise one may expect considerable expansion of "new product"
departments charged with the responsibility of discovering opportuni-
ties for new products and assisting in their development. Only a few
concerns now possess such departments. Little has been attempted
by public policy to make industrial research more easily available to
small enterprises. All of this points to the conclusion that industrial
research is in its infancy and that it offers a way of providing investment
opportunities that will be far more important in the future than in
the past.
VIII
By the end of the war, roughly one-third of the pay rolls of industry
will be directly determined by collective bargaining. Wage rates in


---Economics-1942-0-12.txt---
many nonunion plants will be sensitive to changes in union scales. The
marginal efficiency of capital depends, among other things, upon the
control of management over costs. In the face of large and powerful
labor organizations, will American business possess sufficient control
over costs to maintain a high marginal efficiency of capital? Or will
unions keep investment opportunity limited by promptly converting
any increase in demand for labor into higher wages?22
Many economists believe that bargained changes in costs are bound
to be completely translated into higher prices, so that changes in the
general wage level produce solely price effects and not output or em-
ployment effects. The relationship between bargained changes in costs
and prices is undoubtedly the most important issue in the theory of
employment. The conclusion that rises in costs are translated into
higher prices so that the return on investments is not affected presup-
poses, among other things, a self-contained economy. But even in a self-
contained economy, the assumed relationship between costs and prices
requires a theory of liquidity preference which is not convincing. It is
assumed that higher wages reduce liquidity preference and that the
shift in the schedule of liquidity preference so increases the volume of
active deposits that prices rise in proportion to the advance in wages.
All of this amounts to assuming that the volume of deposits held idle
is a residual and that it is independent of the purchasing power of the
idle deposits.2" These assumptions are far from realistic. If general
increases in the wage level cannot be counted on to produce offsetting
increases in expenditures and prices, a rise in labor's bargaining power
will tend to reduce the marginal efficiency of capital.24 The resulting

---Economics-1942-0-13.txt---
unfavorable shift in the investment function is not offset within the
usual range of national income by the favorable effect of the redistribu-
tion upon the savings function.
The problem which confronts the individual investor or the enterprise
is not the effect of general increases in wages on prices, but the effect
of the spread of union organization upon the probable return from a
particular investment. When one examines this matter, it is difficult
to avoid the conclusion that large and powerful unions tend to reduce
the marginal efficiency of capital. It is true that collective bargaining
frequently raises plant efficiency by giving management better informa-
tion about conditions and by giving representatives of the men an
opportunity to point out mistakes of management. Nevertheless, power-
ful unions increase the likelihood that successful concerns will have to
share their prosperity with the employees. Until recently there has been
no offsetting protection against losses. The development of the policy of
union-management co6peration during the last twenty years has in-
teresting theoretical implications. Most of the cooperative plans have
been started in high-cost plants. They have been a way by which the
workers in these plants tried to safeguard their jobs. If union-manage-
ment co6peration were to become widespread in high-cost plants, it
would go far to offset reduction in the marginal efficiency of capital
produced by the encroachment of unions on the profits of the most
successful concerns. For the time being, however, one must conclude
that the spread of unionization tends to reduce the marginal return of
capital.
Are unions likely to reduce the return so seriously as to limit materially
the capacity of the economy to expand? That is a possibility, but
not a necessity, as the experience of the United Kingdom and Sweden
shows. One may assert with confidence, I think, that even a large and
powerful labor movement will be less harmful to expected returns on
investments than the shift in power that has been going on since 1933.25


---Economics-1942-0-14.txt---
There is nothing fixed or inevitable about the way in which collective
bargaining operates and the effects which it produces. I have in mind
a case where union policy has reduced output per man-hour over 40
per cent in seven years. I have in mind also a steel mill where the
president recently said that he would not sell his plan of union-
management co6peration for a million dollars. Such are the possible
extremes. Management has it within its power to influence greatly the
way in which collective bargaining operates. As managers become recon-
ciled to the necessity of dealing with trade unions, they may be expected
to be increasingly successful in gaining help on operating problems from
unions. The effect of collective bargaining upon the marginal efficiency
of capital will also depend upon the willingness of employers to or-
ganize. American employers have always been reluctant to organize
for the purpose of dealing with labor. Most of their existing bargaining
organizations are flimsy affairs with little discipline and meager re-
sources. The success of collective bargaining in Sweden and the United
Kingdom is largely attributable to the way in which the return on
capital has been protected by large and powerful organizations of
employers.
Ix
The readiness with which an economy translates the results of
technological progress into new investment, the resistance which it
shows to depression, and the ease with which it recovers depend in
large measure upon the willingness of individual enterprises to increase
their expenditures for equipment and for the development of new prod-
ucts more or less regardless of the general business situation-to step
out in advance of other concerns and make commitments. In other
words, it depends upon the relative attractiveneiss of venturesome and
daring production plans in comparison with cautious production plans.
The dynamic influence of venturesome production plans has been
underrated in recent economic analysis, largely because the contagious
effect of investment by one firm in compelling offsetting investments by
rivals has received little attention.
The government, through the way in which it raises its money, has
wide discretion in determining the relative attractiveness of different
types of production plans. This is especially true when the government


---Economics-1942-0-15.txt---
takes such a large proportion of individual and corporate incomes as
it now does. Taxes in recent years have been remarkably well designed
to bear heavily on any enterprise which displays daring, which backs
an innovation or an experiment, especially an experiment which is
pretty certain to experience losses for several years. The loss carry-over
provisions of the corporate income tax could be modified, for example,
to facilitate substantially the accumulation of capital by new concerns.
In times of poor economic visibility and rapid technological change,
much is to be said for a flexible treatment of depreciation allowances.
Enterprises should be encouraged to write off half of the cost of new
assets during the first three or four years of their life. This would in-
crease the subsequent tax liability of the concern, but it would make un-
certain ventures less risky. A large reduction in the tax on that part of
corporate profits spent for plant and equipment (the reverse of the un-
distributed profits tax) would help restore the practice of plowing back
earnings-so important if new concerns are to furnish stiff competition
for old ones and important in the case of all concerns in stimulating the
kind of investment which starts expansion and improves the ability of
the enterprise to attract funds from the outside. A similar principle
might be applied to the personal income tax. In the case of this tax there
is conflict between the community's interest in the principle of ability to
pay and its interest in expansion. Stiff surtaxes greatly reduce the
marginal efficiency of any investments made by large income recipients.
These surtaxes are in conflict with prevailing theories of liquidity
preference. It would not be necessary to repeal the surtaxes. The at-
tractiveness of uncertain ventures to large income recipients (or even
persons in the middle brackets), could be increased by a substantial
reduction in the surtax on that part of income invested in non-refunding
equities.26
x
The ability of the community to supply itself with enterprise will
depend also upon the organization of the capital market. At the present
time this is in a state of flux, partly because of recent legislation and
partly because changes in the tax system require that machinery be
developed for obtaining venture capital from income brackets which
have provided little of it. It is important to realize that neither the
volume of investment opportunities nor the volume of investment-
seeking funds is fixed. Each is the result of discovery and of effort. It


---Economics-1942-0-16.txt---
takes work and money to find good credit risks which could use funds
and to find people who might be persuaded to buy particular types of
securities. Many men make their living by doing these things. How
dynamic the economy is able to become will depend partly upon how
good a job is done in adapting the machinery of the capital market to
new conditions.
XI
To a very substantial extent, of course, the opportunities for invest-
ment will be affected by the policies which the United States elects to
pursue toward the rest of the world after the war. If conditions are
reasonably stable, opportunities will exist for large international move-
ments of capital and for extensive investment on a broad scale. Indeed,
the potentialities of this are enormous. Here we see perhaps more
plainly than ever how dependent investment opportunity is upon policy,
for the problem of providing the basis for large international capital
movements which will greatly raise the standard of living of the entire
world is, in the main, a political one.
XII
One may infer from this survey that the outlook for employment
during the post-war generation is not necessarily dark. In fact, it may
turn out to be distinctly good, especially in the event, by no means
improbable, that the country is able to create favorable conditions for
large capital exports.27 But my purpose in this analysis has not been
to speculate about the future, because anything can happen. Rather
my purpose has been to focus your attention upon certain character-
istics of our economy. The conclusion to which I invite your attention
is that most of the variables which determine the amount of private
employment and the rate of expansion are influenced within wide range
by policies, public and private. This is true of the relation between costs
and prices; of the way in which cost curves shift in response to changes
in demand; of the quantity of resources, public and private, devoted
to technological discovery; of the disposition to venture, and the rela-
tive preference for various types of production plans; of the position
and income elasticity of the savings function. No fixed or inevitable
values may be assumed for these determinants of expansion. Hence


---Economics-1942-0-17.txt---
there is no fixed amount of investment opportunity, no fixed willingness
to take chances, no fixed demand for goods or for people to make goods.
All depend upon conditions, and all may be greatly influenced by
policy.
Some of the policies which determine the volume of employment
represent a deliberate choice between employment and something else.
There may be a clash, for example, between the interest of the com-
munity in full employment and its preference concerning the distribu-
tion of wealth. Since tax changes which would raise the marginal re-
turn on investments by the well-to-do would facilitate the acquisition
of large fortunes, the community may accept a limited amount of
private employment in order to achieve a more even distribution of
wealth.28 The policies which represent a deliberate and informed choice
between employment and something else are not our problem. Many of
the policies which affect employment, however, are not intended to do
so. The groups which produce the policies are too small to consider their
consequences for employment and yet the total effect of the policies
of thousands of organizations of business men and farmers, thousands
of local unions, and many states, counties, and cities upon cost-price
relationships and upon the opportunity to experiment and to introduce
innovations is considerable.
Because many policies are pursued without regard to their effect
upon the general level of employment, the persistence of unemployment
cannot be counted upon to produce the changes in policies which are
needed to increase employment. If the bargaining power of labor, for
example, is too great in relation to the rate of technological discovery
so that the investment function does not permit a satisfactory level of
employment, there is no automatic change in policies to reduce the
bargaining power of labor, to raise the rate of discovery, or to produce
a shift in the propensity to save. These things may happen, but they
cannot be counted upon to happen. In fact, the response of policies to
unemployment may in the main be bad: unemployment may provoke a
flood of attempts to protect markets by restrictions which narrow the
area of innovation, cut the marginal return on investments, and pro-
duce unfavorable shifts in the schedule of liquidity preference. Numer-
ous examples of this kind of response to unemployment can be gathered
from the recent depression both in the United States and abroad.29


---Economics-1942-0-18.txt---
If the level of employment is unsatisfactory from the standpoint of
the community, who is to assume responsibility for seeing that policies
are modified or broadened so as to permit the largest amount of em-
ployment compatible with the other interests of the community? To
some extent the government can assume this responsibility. The gov-
ernment has three principal ways of affecting the general level of em-
ployment: (1) the method of correction, (2) the method of compensa-
tion, and (3) the method of stimulation.
The method of correction involves making changes in public policies
or forcing changes in private policies in order to increase employment
or, put in other words, altering the distribution of economic advantages
in order to increase the total amount of income.30 Many public policies
-tax policies, regulation of security markets, price-pegging schemes-
were adopted without an appraisal of their probable effect upon em-
ployment and even without a suspicion that there was a problem of
maintaining employment. Recognition of the existence of such a prob-
lem may lead the community to prefer to revise many of its policies.
The policy of correction would also involve the assertion of some public
control over private policies. There are various ways by which the gov-
ernment might exercise such control, but on the whole the possibilities
are limited because, in many cases, control cannot be accomplished
without a large number of detailed regulations which would be im-
practicable to administer.
The method of compensation involves an attempt by deficit financing
to offset the failure of private enterprise to provide a satisfactory
amount of employment; note that I do not say "full employment."
Strictly speaking, the method of compensation should not be used until
the community has gone as far as it is willing to go in applying the
policy of correction. Otherwise, the policy may divert the government
from thoroughly exploring the possibility of enforcing changes in private
policies that would raise the level of employment. In fact, the persistent
use of the policy of compensation may stimulate a development of
private policies that are unfavorable to employment. Why should an
up-and-coming labor movement, for example, permit the demand cre-
ated by public spending to produce more employment rather than
higher wages?
The use of deficits to compensate for a chronic shortage of invest-
ment opportunities raises very different economic issues from those
involved in the use of deficits in periods of depression when there are



---Economics-1942-0-19.txt---
idle resources of all sorts. Although the tax expectations aroused by a
persistent use of deficits do not necessarily reduce the marginal effi-
ciency of capital, as a practical matter it is very difficult to prevent this
effect. There are also likely to be important differences in the economic
effects of public and private investment which prevent the former from
being merely an offset to the latter. Private investment, being intended
to yield a profit, represents an attempt to anticipate trends in consumer
demand and thus to keep the pattern of productive capacity adjusted to
the pattern of consumer demand.31 To the extent that this happens,
private investment tends to produce a rise in output and employment
rather than in prices. Public investment, on the other hand, does not as
a rule represent an attempt to adjust productive capacity to consumer
demand. Hence, if public spending occurs on a large scale after plant
is fairly well employed, its effect will be in the main to raise prices
rather than to increase employment. Consequently, the policy of com-
pensation seems to have a much narrower application than most of its
proponents have assumed.
The method of stimulation involves expenditures by the government
which are designed to produce favorable shifts in the private invest-
ment function. Expenditures on roads or air ports and, in some in-
stances at least, on rivers and harbors are an example, but the outlay
in fact may take a wide variety of forms. The support of agricultural or
industrial research is an example. Note that the efficacy of the method
of stimulation does not depend upon the expenditure's being financed
by borrowing. The essence of the method is that a public expenditure
(or loan) is creating a private investment opportunity which would
not otherwise exist. The method is not a new one, but it is susceptible
of considerable expansion.
XIII
This brief review of the possibilities of public policy leads one to the
conclusion that the range within which the government can influence the
level of employment is broad but, nevertheless, in a non-regimented
economy, limited. Given a fairly rapid rate of technological change, a
fairly even balance of power between employers and workers, and a
well-organized capital market, the community with the help of the
government may maintain a satisfactory level of employment. But we
cannot be sure. This brings us to the final and most basic consideration.
Both what the government needs to do and what the voters will permit
the government to do depend in the last analysis upon the valuations


---Economics-1942-0-20.txt---
which individuals place upon group interests and common interests.32
There are two ways in which groups may advance their interests. One is
based upon a high valuation of one's special interests, and involves
improving the bargaining position of the group for the purpose of
getting a larger share of an income flow with little regard to the effect
upon the size of the total income flow. The other is based upon a high
valuation of general interests and involves restraint in pressing special
claims which conflict with general interests.
It is not for the economist qua economist to quarrel with the valua-
tions which individuals and groups place upon their interests. He is,
however, within his scientific rights when he points out that these valua-
tions have profound economic effects. They determine both the methods
of production which it is possible to use and the quantity of goods that
can be produced. High valuations of special interests can throttle pro-
duction and render the government and every one else incapable of
providing a satisfactory level of employment. High valuations of com-
mon interests will produce public and private policies that will prevent
there being a problem of long-term unemployment.
Is it at all thinkable that groups of workers, employers, and farmers
in dealing with one another and in pressing claims for legislation will
be limited or guided to a substantial extent by concern for the national
income? Or as these groups become more and more highly organized and
more and more conscious of their particular interests, will they become
less and less disposed to place high valuations on common interests?
No one knows. Larger units of decision would help. Wage policy, for
example, which is now made by groups too small to feel much responsi-
bility for the general level of employment, might be made by units such
as the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Associa-
tion of Manufacturers on the one hand and the American Federation of
Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations on the other."3
Perhaps new machinery must be invented in order that all groups may
agree on the restraints that shall be placed upon their special interests
and in order to make possible new ways of promoting common interests.
A lively concern for common interests by well-organized and self-
conscious special groups may seem a utopian dream; but in an economy
in which the policies of government and of large private groups deter-
mine employment, what substitute is there for it? The possibilities of

---Economics-1942-0-21.txt---
modern technology are tremendous. If these possibilities can be realized,
no one can doubt that we are on the threshold of gaining a far better
standard of living than man has ever known. Nothing can prevent us
from realizing the possibilities of modern technology except unwilling-
ness to place a high valuation upon certain common interests-particu-
larly our interests in enterprise, experimentation, innovation. Never
have the rewards of a broad view of common interests been more
attractive. Never has the folly of narrowly pressing special claims been
greater. The economic future of our country and of the world depends
upon the clarity with which this is seen.



---Economics-1943-0-01.txt---
Three years ago, Professor Viner addressed this association on "The
Short View and the Long in Economic Policy."2 With a levity quite
shocking in a presidential address, he epitomized his own message in
the aphorism, "There's life in the old dogmas yet." The following
year Professor Mills, speaking under the title "Economics in a Time
of Change,"3 toyed with the idea that we might teach the old dogmas
some new tricks.
The canine pun which Professor Viner perpetrated and I have
extended turns my mind back to a story about a dog that appeared
among the last of Mark Twain's writings. It began: "My mother was
a Collie, my father was a St. Bernard, but I am a Presbyterian."
Observation leads me to conclude that economists by and large, in
spite of our mixed ancestry, are Presbyterians at heart. For the
Presbyterians lean toward traditional forms, ritualistic services, rigid
creeds, and doctrines of predestination and determinism.
The ancient dogmas for which Professor Viner made a plea are
essentially the benchmarks or the boundary posts of the economics of
the free market. And it was from "the free market as the battle-ground
of competitive forces" that Professor Mills began his inquiry as to
the course of economics in a time of change. The change which he
envisaged was largely in the nature of newer and, he hoped, more
adequate definitions of values in some fundamental and objective
sense which might guide the determination of pecuniary values in the
commercial market. Many among the ranks of both economists and
laymen have given up hope of attaining such a scheme of values
through the institutions of private business. Fascist and other totali-
tarian regimes in various countries abroad propose to end the struggle


---Economics-1943-0-03.txt---
by the short-cut method of authoritarian determinations. At home,
an essentially similar proposal appears on the agenda of our own
more outright economic planners.
The grand objective of general welfare which plan economy sets up
must commend itself to all good men. But not all good economists
accept the proposed methods of government-directed activity and gov-
ernment-regulated prices as the only or even the surest way of reaching
these goals. Some of us see reasons for believing that these age-old
aspirations of humankind may yet be brought to scientifically more
tenable and socially more tolerable expression in the institutions of
the private market, revamped in the light of our growing knowledge.
With a wary eye over my shoulder at Professor Viner brandishing
his closing warning against those who put "old poisons in new bottles,"
I wish to consider the possibility of reconciling the two ideas, sub-
limated objective value on the one side, and the processes of the free
market on the other. The context in which I wish to discuss this issue
is that provided by Professor Slichter's presidential address of last
year,4 namely, the possibility of sustained peacetime prosperity after the
war rather than a repetition of the deep "depression and disappointing
recovery" that followed the First World War. I am happy also to
fall in step with him by making my approach in terms of "policies and
institutions" as factors in the problem, which are at once significant
for the outcome and amenable to control, or at least effective modifi-
cation, by ourselves.
I recognize that this personalized, not to say chatty, style for a
presidential address is not quite within the austere tradition of our
Association. But since an innovation as to the time and place of pre-
senting this address was thrust upon us, I see no reason why we should
not venture an innovation modifying also the character of the offering.
May not something be said for regarding the remarks of the presidents
of the Association in successive years as intellectual link-relatives
rather than as discrete literary phenomena?
Economists of my generation were brought up in the tradition of
the "price-organized society" or "exchange cooperation," in a pre-
ponderantly laissez-faire setting. We have lived-I trust not beyond
our time-to experience the realities of a society whose economic life
is by no means ordered by mere behavioristic responses to free-running
market influences. Perhaps our economic system today cannot be re-
garded as predominantly characterized by determinations even nomi-
nally based on free market prices. Not only may the government,


---Economics-1943-0-04.txt---
through many of its agencies, set or significantly modify a rate or
price; large industrial or mercantile corporations, banker affiliations,
co6perative associations, labor unions may also inject similar fixations
of exchange ratios into the stream of economic life, leaving the affected
parties to adjust their operations to the resultant situations as best they
may. Or these administrative agencies-public or private-may decide
autocratically to turn whole blocks of given resources into the stream
of production or trade at specific places or to withold them. In this
event, the price system must absorb the impact of these centralized
determinations of volume as best it can.
When the irresistible force of these operational determinations
meets the immovable body of price interrelationship, or when the
irresistible force of these mandated prices encounters the immovable
body of operative reality, an economic impasse of some degree develops
unless by rare good fortune or even rarer wisdom the controlled mag-
nitude has been set in mutually consistent relationship to the uncon-
trolled magnitudes. When local tangles arising from such causes cumu-
late into a general log jam of business, we have, in Hansen's phrase,
"stagnation" or, in Slichter's phrase, "disappointing recovery." All of
us have lively recollection of the clinical manifestations of this phe-
nomenon during the thirties and many of us have a lively apprehension
of further and perhaps still more disastrous manifestations in the later
forties and the fifties in spite of the panacea of public spending that
Dr. Hansen prescribes.
It may in this connection be replied that men have in their economic
life always been making positive and simultaneous price and operative
decisions or choices, which interacted upon each other to produce the
eternal flow of self-adjusting business life. This life had its ups and
downs, of course, but it had also a dependable trend toward partial
equilibria and general equilibrium. To use Edgeworth's phrase, quoted
by Mills, there were ripples and "viscous waves" upon the surface of
"a sluggish sea." One could add that disturbances might become violent
enough to bring disaster to any individual mariner or even at times to
many of the craft within a particular area. But the duration and char-
acter of these phenomena were strictly limited by the fluid or "viscous"
character of the medium.
There are, however, polar regions of the sea, where temperatures
are low enough to freeze even salt water. There we encounter phe-
nomena to which the physical laws of fluids do not apply. No more is
the economics of individualism adequate to the problems of large and
rigid business groups and government participation in business. I think
it not fantastic to suggest that the economic phenomena of corporate,
union, and government price administration and large-scale decision of


---Economics-1943-0-05.txt---
action or of obstruction (including financial controls) move us from
the phenomena of the endlessly tossing but perpetually leveling ocean
to the phenomena of the towering icepack and the abysmal crevasse.
Confronted by the problems of such a business world, we economists
have ranged ourselves in two schools of thought. One school would
apply dynamite to the ice jam or even hope to melt the separate blocks
back to their pristine fluidity. The other would accept crystallization as
an accomplished fact decreed by Nature; they would seek by skillful
engineering and with architectural vision to shape and build those
blocks-of varying sizes-into a stable and serviceable structure of
business.
It is toward the latter of these groups that my own economic studies
have led me. Economists of today and tomorrow might well abate their
interest in the phenomena of the individual economic man following
the patterns of choice and action traditionally ascribed to exchange
cooperation in a society of individual competition. They should at the
same time guard against the present tendency to transfer the reasoning
developed from consideration of the economic functioning of the natural
individual over to the individual firm. While one individual firm may
be hardly more than a personal partnership, other firms administer the
lives and labors of tens or even hundreds of thousands of workers
and comparably weighty blocks of capital; they may sway or signifi-
cantly direct the activities of state and federal governments or even
become determining factors in international affairs. On the positive side,
we need to study much more assiduously the ways in which economic
forces (even those already studied in their individualistic context) come
to expression in the actions of large corporate concerns, national trade
unions, and agricultural marketing and pressure groups, and of govern-
ment functioning through its own ever-multiplying "action agencies."
In all this, I assume that our objective as economists is to learn how
these groups can be most effectively organized for joint voluntary
action which will attain a scheme of market values that will steadily aid
the approach toward maximum human satisfactions for the total
population.5
II
I have spoken figuratively of the need of building somewhat rigid
blocks of economic interest into a sound and serviceable structure of
business. But this, like all metaphors, harbors possibilities of mis-
interpretation. Does it imply an architect or achitectural group given


---Economics-1943-0-06.txt---
an official commission to design the palace or cathedral of their social
dreams? Does it signify a social engineer or institutional construction
company awarded a contract to translate these blueprints into reality?
No; I am not going to make an argument for implemented govern-
mental planning. On the contrary, I shall be concerned primarily with
the difference between mechanical building and social growth. There is
here no separation between artists or artisans and the inert materials
with which they work. Instead, we are dealing with a living process in
which desires, powers of choice, and internal constructive force infuse
both the builders and the building material. Evaluative human units
are not only the builders of our business edifice but are the building
itself.
The process by which many individuals of many talents may organize
themselves for the continuous discovery of their true economic interests
and the peaceful promotion of those interests in their most consistent
combination may be best described by the term "collective bargaining."
That phrase has no doubt acquired unfortunate connotations in many
minds. It is not my intention to evade or deny these shortcomings of
actual collective bargaining. On the other hand, I shall hope to show
that the degradation of the collective bargaining dogma has moved us
far and fast toward governmental control and to indicate a basic reason
why such control does not furnish a solution to the problem of organiz-
ing economic life. Then I shall consider what seem to me the greater
merits of private but group-organized direction of business activities
and the nature of the collective bargaining process by which it may
best be promoted.
Collective bargaining is obviously a development within the general
field badly described as imperfect competition, better described as
monopolistic competition, and still better as administered prices. The
chief drawback of the latter term lies in the fact that it focuses atten-
tion on the dictated character of many current business adjustments.
Collective bargaining, on the other hand, focuses attention on the ele-
ments of negotiation in such settlements. Both qualities are generally
present, but it is well to consider the element of dictation first, on our
way to the examination of bilateral group negotiation as an organizing
process of economic life.
It is in the labor market that the phrase collective bargaining
originated, and it is there that the issues which it raises have been most
sharply defined. The subject matter of these collective bargains for
labor has been so strongly dominated by the unit price objective that
they are often referred to simply as wage bargains. In fact, however,
they have characteristically embraced or been contingent on under-
standings as to the amount or character of labor to be delivered under a


---Economics-1943-0-07.txt---
specified wage rate, the kind of techniques to be employed, work sur-
roundings, and other details, so that they go far toward determining
the whole operating situation. It is the complaint of many employers
today that, under guise of wage rate bargaining, labor groups have
insinuated themselves into management in quite substantial, or quite
"improper," ways. Labor on its part would probably admit that by
collective bargaining it has sought to participate actively-it might
say more usefully-in the direction of business, in which it conceives
itself to have a partnership interest.
The phrase "collective bargaining" has attained some vogue also
in connection with commodity prices, particularly in the agricultural
field. Collectively bargained prices are found rather generally in the
marketing of fluid milk and not infrequently in the selling of other
products, notably canning crops and sugar beets. It is strictly collective
or bilateral group bargaining when many dairymen act through a pro-
ducers' co6perative association to sell their product through a distribu-
tors' organization which covers all or most of the sellers of fluid milk in
a metropolitan area. The contract price which a growers' association
negotiates with a single large sugar factory or cannery might seem to be
unilaterally collective if the processing corporation be regarded as an
individual buyer. But, in the last analysis, it constitutes group bargain-
ing between the body of individual farmers and the body of stock-
holders of the corporation, the actual bargaining being of necessity car-
ried on by the agents of both groups. Much the same can be said of
collective buying of fertilizer, gasoline and oil, and other farm supplies
by the larger consumer co6peratives such as the Grange League Federa-
tion Exchange. A great amount also of large-scale buying and selling
among manufacturers or between them and department stores, chains,
and mail order houses has many of the essential characteristics of col-
lective bargaining.
The real trouble in the transition from individual bargaining to the
group method of price making and business direction is that so-called
collective bargaining has been a child of violence and not a child of
love or even of scientific genetics. It is a matter of common knowledge
that the emergence of collective bargaining by both laborers and
farmers resulted from the growth in size and bargaining strength of
employing and purchasing units after the advent of the business corpo-
ration. But the attempt to redress the balance of bargaining strength,
once initiated, took on the familiar lines of the military race between
armor and armament; from armor that would stop any existing pro-
jectile to a projectile that would pierce any known armor; then still
better armor, followed by yet mightier guns, ad infinitum-unless
reason should intervene and institutions be devised to control the mad


---Economics-1943-0-08.txt---
race of destruction. Industrial and mercantile exploitation of the fac-
tory laborer and the farm worker gave us the labor union and the agri-
cultural cooperative. The labor union gave us the sympathetic strike,
the blanket wage contract, federal labor legislation, and the National
Labor Relations Board and similar control agencies. The local coozpera-
tive gave us the federated or centralized association, the "commodity
marketing" movement, the Federal Farm Board, and the Agricultural
Adjustment Administration.
The last step of both these series brings us to government control
along lines of class interest. Farm bloc and labor bloc appear to be
ready to give the workers in industry and agriculture a system of
implemented economic planning as soon as their clients say the word.
But before giving such a word the parties pause.
Today there are questionings among both the agrarian leaders and
the labor leaders whether they have not overshot their mark or whether
the tide on which they rode to power may not be about to engulf them.
Is it not possible that, in seeking the power of government to give them
boons that they cannot win for themselves through bona fide bargain-
ing, they have renounced their own right of self-determination and
become the wards of the provident state? Such an outcome has been
seen abroad. The widespread agricultural co6perative movement in
Russia was swept aside by the Soviet collective farm. The labor unions
of Germany lost their rights of self-determination and workers were
reduced to a servile status when Hitler accepted the task of ending
unemployment. Both labor unions and agricultural co6peratives so far
as they existed in Italy were reduced to robots of the fascist state.
The N.R.A. constituted a desperate move on the part of business
in the hour of commercial crisis to bring business in general under the
wing of government. In spite of their early withdrawal from that
alliance (or surrender), there is still a faction within the ranks of
business which looks longingly toward the comprehensive controls that
characterize the fascist state.
Before any of these interest groups make an irrevocable cession of
their great provinces of the free market economy to the suzerainty of
the political state, they should ponder carefully. Is it not possible to
utilize institutions and practices already experimentally developed in
private business and so perfect them as to bring personal values to
maximum expression and preserve desirable liberty of individual action,
but also facilitate necessary discipline and at the same time meet well
the requirements of advancing technology and of practical planfulness?
There is a tendency today even among economists to regard the ac-
tivities of organized groups in the business field as operating exclusively
toward curtailment of economic self-realization for the majority and to


---Economics-1943-0-09.txt---
assume that government activity universally affords release to the
energies and aspirations of economic men. As a matter of fact, private
aggregation and public control both lead to frustration of some of the
basic economic urges of the individual as well as to gratification of
others. It is the thesis of this paper, however, that nongovernmental
organization for multilateral group bargaining presents, in the long run
and over the major part of the economic field, the truest and fullest
opportunity for universal self-expression combined with technical effi-
ciency.
Before examining the positive case, let us consider briefly two major
shortcomings of government as an agency for ordering our economic
lives.
III
Those who regard the drift toward governmental determination of
economic issues as not only an inevitable but also a fortunate develop-
ment are prone to think of this as the only "scientific" method of
ordering the economic affairs of a people. For who can know and seek
steadfastly "the common good" except the national government that,
by its very nature, rises above all class or sectional rivalries and can
compute the common multiple of the multifarious aspirations of all
its citizens?
This, however, is a superficial view. The analogy of the common
multiple is seriously misleading. In arithmetic, a common multiple com-
pletely and precisely embraces all the constituent factors, and these
factors are determined, exact, unchanging, and consistent. But the
interests of a nation's citizens are undetermined, vague, changing, and
often mutually inconsistent. In any strict sense they are largely un-
known even to the parties and, hence, unknowable by any central ad-
ministrative agency. They have to be discovered or registered in the
very process of adjustment to real and ever-changing local conditions.
In their final terms they must represent compromises, interarticular
adjustments, and new subjective values that emerge from the very
process of making particular decisions for action as the parties at
interest are confronted by changing situations.
When government attempts to deal with these complex, varied, and
changing situations it does so through either the legislator or the ad-
ministrative official. Our legislative process is, of course, a succession
of compromises among individuals and rival interests and thus may
seem to conform to my criterion of a sound procedure for settling eco-
nomic issues. But the compromises made in Congress are in the nature
of political trades and log-rolling deals involving many extraneous is-
sues rather than being specific business transactions in which func-


---Economics-1943-0-10.txt---
tionally interested parties make a concrete and responsible bargain from
whose outcome they themselves derive gain or suffer loss. The answers
which the legislator gives to economic problems tend to be class or
pressure-group answers not differentiated according to the peculiarities
of local situations nor resolved into any consistent pattern of direction
for the economy as a whole.
It is largely in recognition of the limitations of legislative handling
of business relations that there has been so great an expansion of the
administrative arm of government. The bureaus through which these
administrative agencies function seek not merely to direct business
along lines marked out by legislative declarations of policy; they also
draft new legislative proposals or modifications and extensions of older
laws. Presumably the formulation of "the common good" by a trained
civil service will be less opportunistic or less cynical than that of a
parliamentary body. The proponents of government planning no doubt
believe sincerely that through such professional guidance we shall
attain competent direction and put an end to political patchwork.
But this administrative formulation and promotion of ends, even when
sincerely conceived as the "common good," does not give us objective
values.6 There is a certain intellectual arrogance in the idea that the
government bureau knows best. It cannot know the actual situations
with which it must deal except by proxy, and the proxy can never
be more than approximately right. Government can see only through
the eyes of its officials who, of necessity, are concerned to simplify
complex reality to an operating rule. The larger the role of direction
assumed by central government, the closer do we approach to a dicta-
torship of the capitalists, of the proletariat, of the Republicans, of
the Democrats, of the New Deal, or of whoever may ride the "wave of
the future."
Only those who are actual participants in an enterprise confronted
by a concrete situation are capable of saying whether they would value
a particular kind of security above a certain amount of income, whether
they can afford to accept this lower wage as an alternative to that
amount of unemployment, or whether they would settle for specific
discomforts rather than lose prestige or be forced to give up a long
familiar habitat or break a long-established routine. These diverse

---Economics-1943-0-11.txt---
situations cannot be averaged into a rule of wide application; neither
can they be conventionalized for permanent handling. The very
changefulness of our economic weather makes it necessary to provide
for the voices of local operative groups to be heard in the making of
directive decisions. These decisions (all of which are the stuff of which
values are made) cannot be arrived at by manipulation of data from
the morgue of a statistical bureau. Their content must be supplied
currently from the events of the moment and the anticipation of the
future-so far as the operating bodies conceive themselves to be con-
cerned with the future. The important point is that the evaluations be
real because they are written in by the actual parties at interest in the
actual situations in which alternatives are presented.
This brings us to the second basic deficiency of government as a
directive agent in the economic sphere. Even if it could actually dis-
cover and formulate the common material interest of the whole people,
it is by its very nature inept as an agency for attaining that general
interest. It lacks the necessary intimacy and flexibility to apply general-
ized formulas to the particularized situations which make the real body
of business life. Evaluations to be sound must not only be first-hand
but must also be kept constantly up to date. A law or administrative
rule freezes old valuations, whereas the business process must be kept
experimental and subject to pragmatic tests. Any politician or govern-
ment administrator is constitutionally set against admitting mistakes.
The Agricultural Adjustment Administration affords an excellent
case in point. It was a thoughtful and sincere effort on the part of its
framers to set up a scheme of economic democracy through which
local and even individual interests should come to expression within
the setting of the national problem. But however carefully annual pro-
grams, "goals," and other operating devices may be conceived in the
interest of true economic adjustment, they have to be implemented and
defended, extended or altered by Congressmen. And the latter work in
a political, not a scientific, frame of reference. Instead of proceeding
from the crude concept of price or income "parity" to more refined
formulation and practicable application of economic principles, they
have resorted to strong-arm claims for super-parity or to disingenuous
methods of computing parity that make it a farce and give us the sar-
donic phrase "the political crops."
Besides the inevitable conventionalization of values and averaging
or ignoring of particular interests, besides inevitable sluggishness in
revision of policies or programs in the face of swift and frequent
changes in actual business situations, government economic direction
has a third weakness. It fails to collect the piper's fee from the actual
dancers. It does not link responsibility and reward. Questions are sub-


---Economics-1943-0-12.txt---
mitted to political constituencies that fail egregiously to correspond to
the economic areas which will be affected by the course of action
nominally endorsed by the vote. And when results are economically bad,
they can be decorously buried under a deficit appropriation or camou-
flaged under a new political program of government action, or criticism
may be diverted by the red herring of irrelevant forensics. I am quite
aware that some of these same shortcomings carry over into private
business affairs whenever large numbers of people must work together
in a single organization. Instead of party politics we get labor union
politics, intra-corporation politics, and farm organization politics. But
these are not functional characteristics of business, inseparable from
it as they are from political organization. Whereas the basic technique
of the political state is politics, the basic technique of business is pro-
ductive efficiency.
IV
The preceding consideration of some of the shortcomings of govern-
ment in business has suggested various superiorities to be found in a
system of self-controlled business. But this carries no implication that
private enterprise as we have known it has displayed these merits in
adequate measure, or that the systematic development of collective bar-
gaining procedures would of itself introduce satisfactory conditions.
Such a road to better things would be found long and hard. If collective
bargaining between or among functional interest groups is to realize
its potentialities as the mechanism best suited to advance the distinctive
ends of economic life, four conditions must be met. There must be (1)
functional equality among the parties; (2) democratic representation
of individuals in local groups and of local units in overhead organiza-
tions; (3) full disclosure of facts and (4) sincere use of professional
assistance.
True collective bargaining must start from the premise that both
parties are mutually indispensable or functionally equal. A bargain
connotes an actual, however regretful, meeting of the minds of the
parties. It means that they have come to a common recognition as to
what is the most workable adjustment of a mutual relationship. Such
a solution is not arrived at if one party is adamant that labor is the
only truly productive factor, that the farmer's interest is paramount, or
that business belongs unequivocally and indivisibly to management or
to ownership (an ambiguity even here). Over against the sterile claim
that labor has no right to participate in management stands the patent
fact that labor already does participate in management. The denial
of the opportunity to settle basic questions by bargaining caused labor's
participation to take the form of destructive strikes, slow-downs, or


---Economics-1943-0-13.txt---
resorts to political redress. Peaceful participation between rational and
intimately informed representatives of the parties at interest is the
surest way to approach true economic equilibrium.
The second premise-an effective scheme of democratic representa-
tion-brings us to the very heart of the concept of collective bargain-
ing. If our business system is really to achieve the maximum possible
simultaneous expression of the interests of the whole people, it must
have reliable means of learning what those interests are. It is a notable
fact that, in the present organization of business, the individual
capitalist has been largely disfranchised by corporate management,
the ordinary farmer's voice drowned out by the pronouncements of the
farm organization "leaders," and the individual worker to a great
extent subordinated to the will of the labor union official. The situation,
however, differs widely from one organization to another and there are
some indications of a real move toward more representative forms and
practices. Some large corporations are beginning to have stockholder
participation in annual meetings, but this reform moves more along the
lines of grudging concession to popular outcry than along lines of sin-
cere and spontaneous efforts to get an effective registering of stock-
holders' views. The co6perative movement in agriculture has shown
some interesting and effective arrangements designed to leave control
of policy effectively in the hands of the membership without impairing
the operative efficiency of either local or central units. A good organi-
zational plan builds a two-way street over which expressions of the
varied interests of individual members and local groups travel to central
headquarters whilst knowledge of general market requirements, prefer-
ences, and limitations are disseminated down through the system to the
individual participant.
Our third premise for successful collective bargaining is full dis-
closure of pertinent information by all parties. If negotiated settle-
ments are to form a sound basis of business administration, all parties
must be prepared to furnish an adequate and honest factual picture of
the situation in which they stand. Bargains conceived in the tradition
of David Harum or the trickery of the Oriental bazaar are not bargains
in any sense tenable for modern industrial life. All parties are in fact
concerned to make arrangements that will provide for the future se-
curity of their common business venture. Imagine groups of scientists
trying to solve a problem while giving one another incomplete or
phoney data; or groups of mechanics working together on the basis of
false measurements or incomplete specifications! If business refuses to
install a modern lighting system at the bargaining table no less than
at the work bench, government will have to step in to secure full
ascertainment and divulging of the actual state of economic fact about
all the parties as they enter the area of group dealings. Collective


---Economics-1943-0-14.txt---
bargaining cannot be successfully or even safely conducted under the
rules of blind man's buff.
Our fourth premise is that collective bargainers, besides having a
comprehensive array of relevant facts, require special facilities and
personnel for interpreting these facts or applying them to the solution
of the problems by which they are confronted. I have laid great stress
on the need of an organizational scheme through which the economic
desires of all those who have labor or property to contribute to the
economic process shall come to free expression and be combined, classi-
fied, and formulatcd into a set of goals which constitute the actual
motivation of the people. But these goals are not to be achieved by the
methods of ignorance and brute strength. To a business community
that has proved to itself the indispensable value of scientific and engi-
neering personnel in its technological processes, it must become evident
also that professional expertness is no less needed on the social science
front. A beginning has been made, but there is still some lack of sin-
cerity or some failure to perceive just how these new professional
specialists are to be effectively used. Since there is much uncertainty
also among the professionals themselves, we may well give particular
consideration to this feature of collective bargaining.
V
The prominence already given to matters of business structure and
procedure should forewarn you that I am going to speak here not
merely of the role of the economist in business but also of the political
scientist or student of the processes of government or administration.
The special services of the expert in this field would be complementary
to those of the economist in any scheme of business privately but plan-
fully organized, on the basis of frank and studious collective bargain-
ing for the disposition of blocks of labor and capital. His knowledge
of the structure and functioning of large operative bodies must furnish
the setting within which the economist analyzes the content of the
deliberations of interrelated groups as to the workability and mutual
consistency of proposed price-and-production policies and practices.
The demand is not merely that both types of professional aid be sup-
plied but that the two lines of study be covered jointly. Here is a field
of truly interdisciplinary endeavor such as the Social Science Research
Council has been seeking to outline and promote.
If the interest group is badly defined or badly led, it becomes a poor
agency for economic functioning. Defects in both delimitation and
leadership manifest themselves glaringly in the pressure groups which
confront us today in places where constructive collective bargaining
is much needed. Remedy for these two types of defects must be ap-


---Economics-1943-0-15.txt---
proached through proficiencies that lie definitely within the training
and interest of the political scientist. He must work out a scheme of
organizational representation by which rights of expression and ne-
gotiation may be delegated and responsibly exercised, with information
as to results attained brought back to the individual members of the
group to illuminate and improve their future understanding of their
own real interest and of the means of attaining it.
The "organization expert" of today has some of these proficiencies,
but he is preoccupied with essentially operative devices for securing
discipline and coo6rdination within a company. Broader professional
training is needed to develop expertness in defining efficacious ways
for the parties within a given enterprise to express their interest in
functionally significant terms. We need to get beyond such crude
concepts as that sometimes voiced in the claim that labor should have
a voice "equal" to that of capital in management. The attempt to define
equality for noncomparables must give place to the search for a work-
able pattern of bargaining relationships by the parties whose roles
are widely different but mutually indispensable.
The political scientist in the business field must also aid in dis-
covering suitable means for federating or otherwise incorporating small
units into larger ones so that some decisions may be taken on the
basis of the small areas to which they are pertinent, and others on
issues regional, national, or even international in scope. Every such
organizational structure must be relative to the economic content of the
issues to be faced and the determinations to be made. Thus, as was
said above, political scientist and economist must conduct their
studies jointly at every stage of their work.
The economist, however, has his distinctive tasks as analyst of the
economic content of the company's or the association's affairs. Given
a scheme of representative business organization designed to see that
the actually felt interests of the parties to economic life have a chance
for realistic expression, their choices should then be made in the light
of knowledge both as to the facts by which they are confronted and
the effects which may be expected to follow from any proposed line of
action. Let us assume that the fact-finding agencies of government and
the record-keeping departments of the participating groups provide
as good a body of data as it is possible or practicable to collect and
that all parties are frank in divulging their information. It then be-
comes the professional task of the economist to analyze these data with
the best methodological tools to give answers to the questions which
the negotiating interest groups need to put to the data. While the
interest group with which the economist is professionally associated
furnishes the highly necessary worm's-eye view of its interest, the
economist must supplement this with a bird's-eye view of the total


---Economics-1943-0-16.txt---
economy within which the group's long-time interest must be achieved.
For purposes of simplicity I will discuss the matter from here on
merely in terms of the economist in the employ of a large industrial
company. The industrial economist ceases to be a theorist of abstrac-
tion and becomes something approximating a laboratory scientist. If
his employers were intelligent and sincere in hiring him, they will
facilitate his access to the factual materials essential to making the
analyses needed in finding answers to the questions that confront the
business. If they respect the economist as they respect the chemists and
engineers they hire, they will even let him tell them what questions should
be asked. And at appropriate times they will let the economist know
actually the considerations and the reasoning that led them to make
important decisions of general policy or particular action. Only on such
knowledge can he compare their expectations of cause-and-result rela-
tions with the sequences to be expected in accordance with the most
fully developed tools of analysis furnished by economic theory. Mean-
while his attempts to use the tools in the robust surroundings of his
actual business laboratory will show him which tools are too fragile and
which have been designed without proper knowledge of the tasks to
be performed. Under such conditions, we might expect the industrial
economist to become a vigorous contributor to the basic science of
economics regarded as pragmatic generalization of realities, not as im-
plicit theorizing of definitions.
This leads me to another and perhaps somewhat tangential observa-
tion. Such a decentralization of economic talent from the bureaus of
Washington to the headquarters offices of business corporations, co-
operative associations, industrial institutes, and labor unions should
make for the improvement of our profession at the same time that it
was elevating business administration. It is obvious-at least to mem-
bers of the American Economic Association-that there should be a
substantial number of carefully chosen and well-trained economists at
the seat of government, counseling the officials who make policy and
serving on the staffs of the bureaus that administer them. While this
position at the seat of government gives a commanding view of the
far reaches of a problem, it is also conducive in the economist's think-
ing to the resort to ideal solutions somewhat outside the range of actual
business. These may take the form of subsidies which will permit
certain operations to continue even when they would not survive in the
commercial market. Such escapism may grow out of having recourse
to the taxing power and of learning to contemplate a permanently
unbalanced budget with equanimity and a managed-or mismanaged-
currency with the thrill of adventure. It leads also to a certain loose-
ness of thinking among those who fancy an economic problem can
be solved by running away from the rigorous limitations imposed by


---Economics-1943-0-17.txt---
ordinary business terms and invoking a new kind or measure of regu-
latory control, regardless of whether the net effect of such a solution
is to destroy the independent action and voluntary choice which are
the essence of a free people's scale of values.
If, after the war, the labor market for economists encounters some-
thing of a glut, I am strongly of the opinion that the soundest solution
would lie in the direction of a shift-of those who have the fortitude
to endure such an experience-from government and academic into
industrial employment. Industry, if it could acquire a respect for
scientific approaches to business problems commensurate with the
respect it already has acquired for natural science, would benefit
greatly from the new outlook on management. But it too would have
to have a good deal of fortitude to endure the experience.
VI
If time permitted, I should like to point out that the suggestions I
have here set forth, however daring or utopian they may sound, have
substantial counterparts in actual business. There is a very large body
of practical experience, a voluminous record of factual information
available as to what has actually transpired in the various situations in
which buyers and sellers, investors and managers, employers and
workers have dealt collectively with each other. Economic studies have
been very uneven in the interest that they have manifested in different
parts of this body of inductive materials or in the insight they have
shown in distilling lessons either for theoretical generalization or for
practical action from these data.
In the labor area of collective bargaining Professor Slichter has,
from the academic approach, considered both instances and potentiali-
ties of collaboration between labor unions and industrial management
in working out mutually acceptable and economically constructive wage
rates and practices.' Under the latter he has shown that it is possible
for labor to make contributions to the more productive administration
of industry. He supplies instances in which it is the union which has
stimulated or guided management rather than seeking a one-way
street to better income through curtailment of production. From the
ranks of professional union leadership such representatives as Clinton
Golden, Harold Ruttenberg,8 and Philip Murray9 have furnished further

---Economics-1943-0-18.txt---
concrete evidence of the power of the labor group to promote the
general industrial and public interest when management is ready to
meet with labor as a true partner in a joint enterprise. On the first
session of this meeting Professor McCabe analyzed the problem of
how wide a geographical area wage bargains should cover.'0 The presi-
dential address of last year" included a suggestion that, "Wage policy
which is now made by groups too small to feel much responsibility for
the general level of employment, might be made by units such as the
United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Association
of Manufacturers on the one hand and the American Federation of
Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations on the other."
From my own lifelong interest in agricultural economics and coopera-
tive organization I could draw some further illustrations and more
specific suggestions as to the modus operandi of bilateral collective
bargaining. By and large, economists do not know what the basic
principles of coioperation are, and the economics of pooling has never
been professionally examined. Nor have we even bothered to study that
substantial body of operations carried on by "mutual" companies. Some
of the time of economists could profitably be directed to synthesizing
this experience in the less conventional forms of business administra-
tion. Courage and imagination should be exercised in ascertaining their
applicability to wider reaches of business practices instead of consider-
ing merely intricate regulatory schemes and short-cut resorts to govern-
ment direction or even operation of business activities.
VII
In concluding, I shall note points of contact with the addresses of
my three predecessors. Last year Professor Slichter closed his inquiry
into "the conditions of expansion" with the words: "Never have the
rewards of a broad view of common interests been more attractive.
Never has the folly of narrowly pressing special claims been greater.
The economic future of our country and of the world depends upon the
clarity with which this is seen.""
I have voiced a skepticism that this broad view of common interests
is to be effectively attained through comprehensive schemes of state
regulation or through an increasing amount of government operation.
I have, on the other hand, not fully accepted Slichter's "two ways in
which groups may advance their interests." One of these ways, he says,
"is based upon a high valuation of one's special interests, and involves

---Economics-1943-0-19.txt---
improving the bargaining position of the group for the purpose of get-
ting a larger share of an income flow with little regard to the effect
upon the size of the total income flow." If special groups attain power
and use it to enlarge their relative income position regardless of others,
the total is in time so seriously reduced that the absolute amounts
going to them as well as to others are curtailed. Hence his first case
merges into his second; group interest is in the end consistently pro-
moted only by bargains that are, as he puts it, "based upon a high
valuation of general interests and involve restraint in pressing special
claims which conflict with general interests."
In other words, individuals in any category prosper most fully over
the years as self-disciplined participants in a functional group; and
such a group maximizes its permanent prosperity by discovering and
performing most perfectly its functional task in the total economy. This
to my mind suggests the answer to Mill's quest for a means by which
economic science can discover objective values in a world of change.
Such values are not to be found in the subjective demands, from the
most whimsical to the most calculated, of separate individuals. Neither
are they to be found in the rigid determinations of authoritarian govern-
ment since, even when the purpose is sincere, these must in the nature
of the case be subtly suffused with the subjective evaluations of the
legislator and the official. Still less can they be found in the pecuniary
outcome of partisan struggles between power groups which, if the
groups be unequal in size, result in arbitrary or coercive settlements
and, if they be substantially equal, result in economic impasse and
lower productivity. They are most surely to be approached through the
operations of spontaneously affiliated functional interest groups, demo-
cratically organized for the declaration of the interest held by members,
and for bargaining methods of discovering the most practicable means
for simultaneous realization of the largest number of such interests or
for the revision of claims and redirection of effort in the light of better
understanding of operative possibilities and needs. For a government
elite, performing in a vacuum so far as operative responsibility and
sharing in financial results are concerned, such organization substitutes
a vital process of joint administration, with responsible parties negotiat-
ing the varied compromises of competing interests experimentally and
subject to pragmatic testing and re-negotiation.'3


---Economics-1943-0-20.txt---
I thus come back to Professor Viner, defender of the dogma of the
free market. I believe firmly that the process of group bargaining
which I have sketched satisfies the basic requirements of free market
adjustment for which he raises his voice, even though the units I deal
with are much larger than the individual. But a market of group
negotiators can be a free market only as the men who traffic in it
respect each other's freedom and light the course of their bargaining
by the torch of science rather than trying to solve the problems of a
delicate organic process by the crude devices of brute force.
I trust that no one will dismiss what I have said as a mere reversion
to simple-minded laissez-faire or suppose that I am proposing to turn
the country back to the Indians. The elaborate machinery of collective
bargaining which clearly is involved in these proposals should make it
plain that it is not anarchy but a most exacting and rigorous self-
government that is envisaged. This surely is no reversion to the blind
laissez-faire of unbridled individualism, which would permit the strong
to grow ever stronger by ruthless exploitation of a favorable institu-
tional situation at the expense of the weak, who are made ever weaker.
Under democratic institutions of group bargaining, the individual
would be given the fullest opportunity for economic self-expression, as a
member of a team within a league of teams. Technically qualified
leaders would be steadily emerging from the mass through demon-
strated efficiency in the actual task of business adjustment, not in the
arts and wiles of political persuasion or maneuver. It contemplates
strictly business solutions for business problems.
It may be replied that all that I have said is beside the point because
the parties at interest do not themselves want such a solution. Those
whose sincere belief and devoted support would be necessary to the
success of any system of responsible self-direction of business are not
ready to set up such economic institutions and live under them. In
effect, this would be to say that capitalists, managers, and laborers
still are economic isolationists at heart. Events may prove that for the
near-time future this is true, that militant concepts of group sovereignty
are preferred to frank and flexible experimentation with the building
of collective security on democratic patterns. But it is surely not too
soon to anticipate and plan for a day when a few of the most advanced
industrial nations will be able to organize their business life on the
basis of economic statesmanship and science in place of economic
guerilla war and group power politics.

---Economics-1943-0-21.txt---
As to our profession, I have pointed to two desiderata: (1) that
economists acquire more proficiency in dealing with the problems of
how an economy functions when it is organized in large administrative
groups, and (2) that they be put in positions to deliver this technical
knowledge to the administrative officers of the respective groups who
are the responsible parties to the negotiation of economic relations and
the drafting and execution of business programs. Instead of being put
in a position of irresponsible power in a bureaucracy, it is much better
for the economist to be associated with one of the interest groups in
business as a consultative and experimental scientist, without any
authority to shape action or even any prerogative to formulate policy.
As a scientist all that is incumbent upon him to say is that if certain
actions are taken certain consequences may be expected to follow. It is
for the executives to act in the light of this professional counsel, subject
to review by the members of the underlying group organization.
Finally, in aligning myself with Professor Viner in support of the
view that "there's life yet in the old dogma of the free market," I do
not appear as apologist for a dogma-in-the-manger, asserting its own
logical perfection but neither rendering useful service to mankind nor
standing aside for the coming of more serviceable economic doctrines
and institutions. I appear as apostle for a dogma that perpetuates the
age-old wisdom of economic men learned at successive stages of busi-
ness development, a dogma old but ever renewed through its capacity
to give service, a dogma congenial to the minds of freedom-loving men
and ready to serve them again and yet more fully in the economic tasks
of our new day.


---Economics-1944-0-01.txt---
It is fitting especially at this juncture, for the American Economic
Association, the American Political Science Association, and the Amer-
ican Society for Public Administration to meet together. The time has
long since passed when problems of economics and government could
be treated in splendid isolation. Every phase of our economy is affected
by legislation and administration, and practically every governmental
function has its economic implications. Economists and political scien-
tists have in common highly important scientific interests and public
responsibilities.
We have chosen liberty, security, and democracy as fundamental
values in our way of life. Ever since the Great Charter was wrung
from the reluctant King John, we have been endeavoring, bit by bit,
often with failures and retrogressions, and not always with clear under-
standing of what we were trying to do, to realize these ideals. During
most of the time from Runnymede to the twentieth century, they were
regarded as applicable only to some privileged part of the population.
One is tempted to say that more has been done to realize them-for the
forgotten man and all-in the past thirty years than in all the preceding
seven centuries. Be that as it may, however, we still have far to go.
Perfection we should neither counsel nor expect. Americans and
Britishers are no further removed, in time, from Cro-Magnon man, or
from the Teutonic barbarians who beat down Roman civilization, than
are the modern nazis. There are still some among us who have no use
for democracy; some who want liberty, but only for themselves; some
who are bent on preserving their own privileged security by denying
security to others; some, even in America, who think that race and sex
are valid grounds for inequality in civil status and economic oppor-
tunity. In a word, there are many who do lip service to democracy who
are far from democracy in spirit.
Moreover, in the further implementation of these basic ideals, we
shall encounter serious conflicts of values. We shall experience con-


---Economics-1944-0-02.txt---
flict between liberty and economic efficiency, and between liberty and
security. We shall be able to deal with such conflicts only through the
patience, the forbearance, and the pragmatic compromises which are
democracy at its best; but the stream of history, the direction of moral
evolution, will not reverse its flow. Liberty, security, democracy, and
equality of opportunity are established ideals in the ethos of our civili-
zation, and there is no reason to suppose that they will not remain so.
The culture in which these values are dominant constitutes the
atmosphere in which we do our work. The atmosphere will sometimes
be murky-as on the eve of a presidential election-and the visibility
low. There will be, as there is today, much verbal camouflage, and
divergent interests will attach incompatible meanings to liberty, to
security, and to democracy. Under such conditions, economists and
political scientists must accept the responsibility, not only to be fair,
unbiased, and objective in their collection and analysis of factual data,
but also to distinguish between verbalisms and substantive reality, and
to judge between the conflicting interests which economic and political
institutions can be made to serve.
It may seem that I am bent on breaking down the line-fence between
economics and political science, and between these two disciplines on
one side and social or moral philosophy on the other. That, indeed, is
precisely my intent. In all handling of factual data, and in all logical
analysis, I am as much convinced of the necessity for scientific ob-
jectivity as the most lily-white, "pure," economist can be. But I am
unwilling to regard any social science as merely an indoor sport. Eco-
nomics and political science are purposive sciences. Being purposive,
they must be concerned with ends as well as instrumentalities. This
means that they cannot escape value-judgments.
Values
The only final value is human life, or rather human living, with all its
richness and fullness of experience. This, I take it, is what Ruskin
meant when he exclaimed, "There is no wealth but life!" The intrinsic
values comprise the things which constitute the positive content of
living, the things we desire for their own sake-work and play, love
and friendship, hearth and home, and so on, together with such general
conditions as peace, security, liberty, and opportunity. The huge class
of instrumental values includes all our material wealth of whatever
kind, all our technological knowledge, all government, and all the eco-
nomic processes of production and exchange. In fact all social institu-
tions belong in this category of instrumental values-means to some-
thing nearer the heart of man.
Contrary to totalitarian philosophy, no social institution, not even


---Economics-1944-0-03.txt---
the state, is an end in itself. The only end is the human individual-
you, and I, and everyone else. Individuals are the only living things.
Nations "live" only because they are a succession of individuals molded
in, and to, a common ethos. Social welfare means nothing if it is not
the welfare of persons. There should be nothing startling in such a
philosophy of individualism. It is to be emphasized, however, that it
has nothing in common with what is commonly known as "rugged in-
dividualism," since the latter is a philosophy of means, not ends. The
view that the individual is the only end is at least as old as Christianity;
it is the only doctrine consistent with fundamental democracy.
To put all institutions in the category of instrumental values is not
to deny or diminish their importance. No study or policy designed to
make them more effective in the service of human values is wasted.
But when, as so frequently happens, the political party, the church, the
trade union, or private enterprise is made an end in itself, men set up
false gods, we fall into futile idolatry, and the logic of economy is com-
pletely inverted. There would be less reason for such a statement in
this presence, if economists and political scientists, themselves, did not
frequently seem to hypostatize into ends the economic and political
instrumentalities with which, perforce, they are professionally con-
cerned.
The function of political science and economics is to see how these
instrumentalities work, and to make plans for their better working.
Our general task, therefore, is in the nature of job analysis. But we can-
not make an intelligent, or a valid, job analysis unless we decide what
the job is to- do. And we ought to remember that whatever its imme-
diate objectives, the job always has to do, directly or indirectly, with
the intrinsic values of life in a civilized, democratic society. Without,
then, feeling that we are departing from the objectivity appropriate to
the social sciences, we do well to bring ourselves up short, and ask of
ourselves, "What are we here for, anyhow? What valid excuse for
existence has an economist or a political scientist? What human values
are we trying to realize? And for whom?"
The job we have to do will be better done if we do not permit the
trees to blind us to the forest. We must avoid giving our whole atten-
tion to short-run implemental tasks. The program of the three profes-
sional associations meeting together this year is devoted mainly to
long-run problems, not in the belief that immediate post-war problems
will not be pressing and critical, but in the conviction that these imme-
diate problems themselves will be better met, and with likelihood of
fewer headaches in afteryears, if we approach them in the light of basic
principles, and of the human values to the furtherance of which our
democratic way of life commits us. The policies we adopt now will


---Economics-1944-0-04.txt---
determine whether later we have to retrace our steps. They will be the
acid test of our economic and political intelligence, and of the reality
of our democratic protentions.
Democracy
Since it is my purpose to try to show the close relation between
economy and democracy, I ask you to consider with me the nature of
democracy. Democracy has four fairly distinct aspects: political, civil,
ethical, and economic.
Political democracy is an instrumental, not an intrinsic, value. It is
the only form of government we dare trust. It is essentially an insur-
ance policy. It is the right to vote, to hold office, to form political par-
ties, and to criticize the government, often unintelligently, sometimes
mendaciously.
It is commonly said that a people get the kind of government they
deserve. This is only a half truth. There are distinct limitations on the
ability of a people to get the kind of government they ought to have.
We no longer live in a simple agrarian society, in which an occasional
town meeting sufficed for all governmental purposes. We live in an
economy of complex technology, extreme specialization, and close inter-
dependence of functions. All these far transcend state boundaries and
local interests. This fact is one cause of the decline of local govern-
ment. It is also the main reason why opposition to expansion of the
functions of the federal government will in the long run prove ill-
conceived and futile.
The limits to effective political democracy are fairly well defined.
The people can vote their preferences in regard to general policies and
values, but much further they cannot safely go. Even with a much
higher level of general education than we now have, they cannot be
competent to pass judgment on complex economic technicalities, on
which even experts disagree, such as the machinery of international
finance, social security reserves, and dozens of other technical matters.
The moment they, or their lay representatives, interfere with the tech-
nical implementation of general policies, they are likely to do as much
harm as good, even if their interference is not under the adroit leader-
ship of selfish pressure groups.
Although civil democracy is as vital an aspect of democracy as the
other three, I shall dismiss it in a few words. Its basic values are indi-
vidual liberty and equality before the law. It is epitomized in the Bill
of Rights, which we did not rediscover until after Pearl Harbor. But
the Bill of Rights needs to be extended and interpreted in the light of
the principles of economic and ethical democracy. Equality before the
law cannot be limited by sex or race. Yet we know that it is. Women


---Economics-1944-0-05.txt---
are not persons in the light of the United States Constitution. The
civil rights they have can be taken away by legislative act. In many
respects, in many states, they are still under the common law, in which
husband and wife are one person and that person the husband. If
women really are persons, these cultural lags should be removed, the
sooner the better.
Ethical democracy is practically synonymous with Christian ethics,
the essential contribution Christianity has made to modern civilization.
More to the point for the present discussion, ethical democracy is a
broad application of the fundamental principle of economy. The es-
sence of ethical democracy, of course, is that respect for the individual
-that individualism-of-ends-of which I have spoken. No demo-
cratically minded person will countenance denial of civil or constitu-
tional rights, even to keep alleged radicals out of government jobs, or
deny equal economic opportunity to persons who happen to have been
born women, Negroes, Jews, or Protestants. This is hard, idealistic
doctrine. Merely to state it is to suggest how far from it we are in
practice, despite churches, Congressional committees, universities, and
Atlantic Charters.
Economic democracy can be summed up as equality of opportunity.
It cannot, however, reasonably mean the dead level of literally equal
opportunity. That would be the reverse of true economy. People are
born with unequal potential capacities. Equality of opportunity there-
fore means opportunity in proportion to capacity to use it. Perhaps it
would be better to call it equity of opportunity. To distribute wealth
and income, and the opportunity they represent, in any other way is
patently a violation of the principle of economy, which is to put things
where they will do the most good. Democracy is perhaps epitomized in
the whole modern trend away from rigidity of status to freedom of op-
portunity. Democracy is a movement toward greater economy in the
utilization of our human resources. Here, economics and ethics walk
hand in hand.
I have said that economics is a purposive science. Its purpose is the
efficient management of our resources, material and human, in the
processes of production and consumption. Its proper aim is not only
to promote the distribution of opportunity which conforms most nearly
to the principle of economy, but to secure the organization and co-
ordination necessary to the full utilization of resources. This means
that effective planning, and a well-organized setup of administration,
are essential, not inimical, to the democratic way of life. If we take
production, and not predation, exploitation, or bargaining capacity, as
the foundation of the wealth of the nation, economic democracy is the
only guide to rational economic management. I wish to emphasize this,


---Economics-1944-0-06.txt---
because it is so easy to think that democracy of any kind is purely a
matter of sentiment, whereas it has a solid rational foundation. I shall
now try to show what, in my opinion, that rational foundation is.
Ideal Economy
Economists hold in their hands the formula for the ideal economy.
If it were not for a few obstacles like human selfishness, ignorance, and
stupidity, they could abolish poverty in two generations. This, of
course, is not saying much, for the real task is to clear away these
obstacles, or at least to render them comparatively innocuous, and such
a task is obviously not going to be accomplished in two generations.
Nevertheless, the general outline of the ideal economy gives the ob-
jective for the economist's over-all job analysis.
The ideal economy, it scarcely need be said, is the perfectly balanced
economic system or the general equilibrium of economic theory. Its
essential features are quickly stated. All productive resources are
"fully" utilized, according to some interpretation of that slippery term.
All productive plants are operated at the point of least unit-cost. Every
productive factor is used where it is most needed. There is thus strict
economy in the distribution and utilization of resources. The ideal re-
sult is the maximization of per capita real income.
In the ideal economy, there would be no overbuilding of plant, no
surplus productive capacity in any industry, and consequently no re-
striction of output. There would be no general overproduction, because
aggregate consumer income would equal aggregate production costs.
Demand for labor and consumption goods would be stable and con-
tinuous. General equilibrium is both the production and the consump-
tion ideal. The only distributive ideal essential to it is that money in-
come must go to people who will promptly spend it.
I am aware, of course, that Lord Keynes has analyzed another kind
of equilibrium, which falls short of full employment, but what Keynes
is doing is to analyze certain obstacles to full-employment equilibrium.
It goes without saying that the ideal equilibrium cannot be fully
realized. If it could be reached tomorrow, it would be upset the next day
by some chemist with a new compound. But the fact that it cannot be
fully attained is nothing against it, any more than the impossibility of a
frictionless machine should deter engineers from improving lubricants,
or than the imperfectibility of man is valid ground for rejecting Chris-
tian ethics and democracy. Though we can reach neither perfect democ-
racy nor perfect equilibrium, both should stand as the North Star of
our economic navigation through the shoals of institutional lags, the
disturbing currents of technological changes, and the storms of acquisi-
tive conflict. In the long run, we shall approach it, asymptotically, more
closely than we now dream.


---Economics-1944-0-07.txt---
Ideal equilibrium should not be construed in terms of the physically
possible maximization of per capita material income. Man does not live
to produce, he produces to live. Values other than those associated with
material goods will always limit the amount of endeavor men are willing
to devote to physical production. Equilibrium is a mathematical con-
cept, but it is also institutional. Leisure and material goods are con-
flicting values, and the relative valuations society places on them are
reflected in laws, customs, and contractual stipulations limiting hours
of labor and the like. Other institutional restrictions, some of them de-
creed by selfish group interest, dictate who shall and who shall not
work. Such discriminations, rooted mainly in race and sex prejudice,
are incompatible with full-employment economy. Other limitations re-
sult from decision to reserve some part of our irreplaceable natural
resources to future generations. None of these limitations, other than
those restricting opportunity to work, in any way invalidates the
equilibrium ideal. Once the people decide how hard and how long they
want to work, and how rapidly they wish to exhaust their natural re-
sources, there is, for any given state of the arts and any given avail-
able supply of resources, an ideal distribution of resources between the
various industries. This is the balanced economy which, and only which,
achieves the highest per capita output and the highest per capita real
income.
Obstacles to Balanced Economy and Full Production
Economics is a trouble-shooting art. Despite all the dithyrambic ad-
vertising about the brave new world industry is going to give us after
the war, we are still a long way from permanent full employment and
continuous full production. It is our function, as economists, to find
out why. It is monumental irony that we come so much nearer full
production in wartime than at any other time. Why is this? Since
human wants are indefinitely expansible, why should there ever be
overproduction or underemployment? Why do economists and business
leaders lie awake nights worrying about the ability of private enter-
prise to furnish full employment after the war? And why the pessimistic
undertone of feeling that with the utmost cooperation between business
and government, or, conversely, with complete freedom of business
from government regulation, full employment, if attained, can be main-
tained for only a few years? These are not mere rhetorical questions.
We cannot bypass them. What, then, are the basic obstacles to con-
tinuous maximum production?
I shall not try to catalogue them. One I shall only mention, and not
comment upon. That is the dynamic, disturbing effect of rapid techno-
logical change. The other main obstacles, as I see them, fall into three
categories: (1) moral and religious traditionalism; (2) ignorance and


---Economics-1944-0-08.txt---
narrow selfishness; and (3) certain operational characteristics of private
enterprise itself, as we have thus far known it.
Moral and religious sentiments not always, but in many cases are
stubborn impediments to economic progress, specifically because a
high material standard of living is not an item high on their scale of
values. We find religious sentiments a serious obstacle to attempts to
raise the standard of living internationally. In some countries, our own
included, religion has adapted itself to the growing appeal of material
values, and to the spread of rationalism and humanism associated with
the whole democratic movement. In no democratic country is it neces-
sary to argue that the abolition of poverty is desirable. But there are
countries where, on moral and religious grounds, the steps necessary
for the permanent mitigation (let alone abolition) of poverty would be
resisted by the people themselves.
One of these necessary steps is certainly the attainment of a reason-
able relation between population and resources. In all thinking about
raising the standard of living "throughout the world," the population
problem should be basic. Everywhere, sooner or later, cessation of pop-
ulation growth is a prime prerequisite to the abolition of poverty. It is
the fashion nowadays to say that Malthus is outmoded. But for the
long run, Malthus was everlastingly right. With the near-certainty that
we are approaching a stationary population in this country, we do not
need to worry about domestic overpopulation. But in the global field
of international economics and politics, we do.
It is being said that this country cannot be prosperous unless others
are also. This is one of those generalizations which may be something
more than half truth, or vicious untruth, according to the context. We
cannot safely concede too much to those idealists, sincere as they are,
who hold that we must sacrifice our own standard of living in order to
raise that of less fortunate-or less rational-peoples. Certainly, as an
emergency demand, no sane person will question that we must make
heavy sacrifices for the rehabilitation of the devastated countries. But
anything more is debatable. We are responsible for unemployment and
poverty among our own hundred thirty million people, but are we re-
sponsible for the economic lot of the teeming millions of Asia and other
grossly overpopulated regions? Does the standard of living to which
any given country may reasonably aspire have any relation to that
country's own natural resources, or does it not? The Atlantic Charter
called for freedom of trade-fortunately with reservations. Does this
mean, also, freedom of migration, with or without reservations? There
are people in other countries who think it does. Has any country which
does not exercise birth control the right to export its human surplus,
and thus glut the labor market of other countries?


---Economics-1944-0-09.txt---
According to the jealousy theory of international relations, pressure
of population in the so-called have-not nations is a danger to inter-
national peace. If this be true, permanent remedy does not lie wholly,
or even primarily, in free trade, or industralization, or any purely eco-
nomic policy. Definite and permanent remedy must rest on moral and
religious changes which will enable the overpopulated countries, through
birth control, to bring their populations into reasonable relation to
their resources. How such changes can be brought about, I do not know.
Industrialization may help, but the example of Japan is not reassuring.
The situation suggests a conflict between two of the Four Freedoms-
Freedom from Want and Freedom of Worship. Every people will hold
that their religion is their own business. Nevertheless, there is great
need for educational missionaries of the right sort, properly grounded
in economic fundamentals, in countries besides Germany.
Freedom from Want is a global ideal, entirely in conformity with
the principle of economic democracy; but the abolition of want de-
nends on economic progress, abroad as at home. Global economic
progress depends on the global progress of rationalism and humanism.
Until these become general, only to limited extent can the principles of
economic democracy be globally realized. Meanwhile, one of the best
services we can give the world is to set other countries a good example
by maintaining our own standard of living.
Population growth in other countries is a problem which should be
receiving our serious attention, for it is bound to have profound bear-
ing on future international relations. Perhaps Washington is giving this
matter the study it deserves, but if so I am not aware of it.
The acquisitive motives. Coming back now to the confines of our
own country, we turn to the second category of impediments-narrow
selfishness and the acquisitive motives. Here we have to do with in-
centives in economic life. Here, too, we encounter a distressing para-
dox: for the acquisitive motive-the desire to have and to hold-is both
the prime mover of enterprise and the main drag which slows down
the whole works. In conjunction with the instincts of curiosity and
workmanship, it gives us notably efficient engineering management, but
by itself it inflicts on us the business policies of restriction of output,
imperfect competition, and monopoly. It has applied science to the
development of a marvelously productive economy, but it has also been
the cause of most of the thievery and robbery, the brutal conquests, and
the bloody wars which blacken the pages of history. Even if we succeed
in ending international aggression, we shall still have to cope, within
our own boundaries, with many uneconomical manifestations of re-
gional and class selfishness-interstate trade barriers, rigid prices,
suppression of inventions, closed shops, closed unions, jurisdictional


---Economics-1944-0-10.txt---
disputes, and, in general, the behavior of powerful pressure groups,
whose heedless aggressiveness in advancing their own interests evi-
dences either ignorance or indifference to the general welfare.
These are some of the overt expressions of the go-getter spirit, which
the pressure groups have taken over from the old-time rugged indi-
vidualism. There are, however, other manifestations of it which impede
progress toward full efficiency and productivity, even when there is no
thought of restricting output, dividing the market, or of the ruthless use
of economic and political power. These manifestations, indigenous in
planless private business, include overbuilding of plants, increase of
unnecessary risks, and the various devices by which inefficient firms are
kept in business.
Adam Smith and the classicists had no worry about the obstructive
effect of selfishness and consolidated greed. They were convinced that
out of the conflict of acquisitive interests would come maximum social
efficiency and the maximum wealth of nations. No coordinated plan-
ning, either by government or business, was necessary. The invisible
hand, working through free competition, would, they thought, with
Mandeville's Fable of the Bees, turn private vices into public benefits,
and establish a beautiful harmony between private acquisitiveness and
social productivity. But the economic harmonies failed to appear. The
economic man was no fool. He knew that he could feather his own nest
better by monopoly, if he could get it. By all possible devices, he
avoided competition. Even the workers gradually learned that they
must take a leaf out of the textbook of monopoly, and through organi-
zation and combination pit their collective power against that of the
employers.
The outcome of all this is that the country is segmented into consoli-
dated and powerful interest groups. Atomistic competition has given
way to amply financed and skillfully marshalled group conflict. The
policy of every man for himself and the devil take the hindmost has
been displaced by group loyalties and group planning-not over-all
planning to maximize the national income, but planning for advantage
in the unending battle of distribution. This is an irrepressible conflict,
which economics is unable to deal with, even in theory.
Many economists have thought that marginal productivity gives us
the basis for a scientific theory of distribution, and even an objective
criterion of distributive justice. This theory is one of our pet illusions.
Beautiful in form, it lacks substance. It is a disguised residual theory,
and every residual theory begs the question, because the only deter-
minant it can find for the priority share is custom, or the so-called
"going-rate." The sooner we admit that there is no objective criterion
of distributive justice, the better we shall understand the close connec-


---Economics-1944-0-11.txt---
tion between economics and ethics, and the sooner we shall see that
acquisitive conflict is inherent in human affairs, at least in any system
based on division of labor. Such conflict can be kept from destructive
effect only by a spirit of reasonableness and forbearance, a sense of
public responsibility which transcends party, and class, and pressure
groups, and an organization of strictly nonpartisan public agencies,
quasi-administrative, quasi-judicial, for the effective, peaceful, and
prompt adjustment of industrial disputes. Substitution of socialism for
capitalism would change the configuration of distributive conflicts, but
it would not abolish them. Nothing can. .
It is erroneous to think of the acquisitive urge only in terms of
money. It is also desire for power; and the methods of power range
all the way from the flicker of a girl's eyelashes to the manipulations
of high finance. In the past, men have desired great wealth not only
for the power it gave them, but for the prestige of the showy manner
in which it enabled them to live. It was an effective way of inflating
infantile egos. I am not under the illusion that infantilism has entirely
disappeared from the mentality of all men of prominence, but there
are distinct indications that conspicuous show in living is going out of
mode. The change has been accelerated by depression and high taxes,
but it promises a profound alteration in social and esthetic attitudes.
Conspicuous waste and vain show will more and more be regarded for
what they are-the exhibitionism of the barbarian and the immature
personality. The proposal to limit incomes to $25,000 was a bit extreme,
but the fact that reaction to it was not more violent is evidence of a
changing ethos and growing public insight into the principle of economy
as applied to the consumption as well as to the production of wealth.
If attitudes toward showy living are changing, so are those toward
power for its own sake, though here the evidence is less clear. It seems
obvious, however, that those former gods of big business, the so-called
malefactors-of-great-wealth, have long since entered their G6tter-
d'ammerung. Only in dim memory can we now hear their cynical cry,
"The public be damned!" The power motive is now more frequently
coupled to what David Hume called "public utility," and we call the
social point of view. It may be that this salutary change is due to
business men's tardy recognition of the hard economic necessities-
since, after all, the public furnishes the demand for what business has
to sell-but in any case it is one more evidence of the growth of democ-
racy. Only in a democracy are power and responsibility reliably con-
joined.
I have been speaking primarily of the attitudes of the so-called
capitalist class. Now what of labor? Here, too, we are witnessing an
evolution, but for the moment it seems to be in the direction of intensi-


---Economics-1944-0-12.txt---
fying the acquisitive urge and the drive for power. The workers have
a new sense of their own strength, they are determined to have a
higher standard of living, and the indications are that they are going
to get it. It is not to be expected that organized labor will invariably
use its power with any more forbearance, fairness, and public spirit
than big business formerly used its power, or than certain agricultural
organizations have of late been using theirs.
I see no reason to suppose that the workers are less selfish than
anybody else. But organized labor will gradually come to maturity.
Parallel to the change in the temper and the public spirit of business
leaders, there is in process a significant improvement in the leadership
of labor. The great drawback is that labor leaders will not always
be able to prevent precipitate action on the part of rank-and-file mem-
bership, any more than clear-sighted and constructively thinking busi-
ness leaders can control the operations of their fellow business men.
We cannot abolish selfishness. But selfishness can be socialized.
Human nature can change for the better in the future, as it has in the
past. Men will continue to progress in social responsibility, as they
certainly have progressed since the days of rugged individualism. Both
labor and capital will increasingly understand that in a democratic
world, group interests can be moulded only in the matrix of the tran-
scendent interests of the whole people. More powerful, however,
than any purely "moral" forces will be the inner logic of private
enterprise itself. Whether private enterprise can survive permanently
depends on how well its leaders understand the logic of its own
processes, and how willing they are to heed the fact that that logic
requires, for the continuity and the over-all efficiency of the system,
certain far-reaching internal structural and functional changes.
Basic Changes Needed in the System of Private Enterprise
Three basic changes will in the long run prove inescapable: first,
some method of providing the inter-industry control and co6rdination
now lacking; second, a wider distribution of consumer income and
purchasing power; third, and corollary to the second, progressive de-
cline in cumulative saving and investment.
Inter-industry coordination. That child of the business men's brain,
the N.R.A., on which the Supreme Court practiced a merciful eutha-
nasia, would have failed in any case. Not only was it based on a phi-
losophy of imperfect competition, price maintenance, and restriction
of output, but it aimed only at infra-industry order and control. Of
inter-industry coo-rdination there was no hint, and the N.R.A. was
powerless to secure it. With all its trade and manufacturers' associa-
tions, chambers of commerce, and committees for economic develop-


---Economics-1944-0-13.txt---
ment, business is still powerless to secure it. If there is, perchance, here
and there a business leader who sees its need, he nevertheless is power-
less. Private enterprise lacks within its own organization the central
authority which alone can secure inter-industry balance. Here, if
anywhere, is necessary that central government control to which busi-
ness so vociferously objects, and which many competent economists
view with misgivings. But without such central control, especially the
rational control of investment, it is difficult to see how we are to attain
the continuity and stability of an efficient and dependable social econ-
omy. The common reply to all this is that competition and a free
market obtain this balance. But the answer is not convincing. For one
thing, the cobweb theorem applies to industry as well as to agriculture.
Call it what you please, view it with caution as you will, I see no
escape from centralized regulation of conditions which affect the whole
nation. For this reason, I have little sympathy with attempts to revive
the states' rights issue, and for the same reason I hope that business
men will exercise caution in accepting the term "free enterprise" in
too literal a sense.
There remain for very brief comment the other two great problems:
the distribution of money income, and the savings-investment problem.
What little I can take the time to say about these problems will be
elementary, and will seem not only superficial but dogmatic, since we
here touch on fundamental questions, both of theory and of policy,
on which economists almost violently disagree.
The market problem. The problem of private enterprise is funda-
mentally that of market for its product, for it is the market which ties
together production, distribution, and consumption in one great, in-
tegrated, going-concern process.
Certain, seemingly self-evident truths should be kept in mind. All
the demand for goods comes from final consumers. The consumer pays
the freight-all of it-all the costs of production, including profits.
This may not be clear in the short run in an expanding economy, but
it must always hold true for the long run. Second, consumers cannot
buy unless they have money to buy with. And third, failure of income
recipients to spend their income currently on consumption goods will
cause a glut in the market. This, in fact, has been the normal condition
with us. The market is nearly always a buyers', not a sellers' market.
Oversupply is the usual state of the market under private enterprise
as we have known it. In other words, the economy is continually out of
balance because it lacks that equality between aggregate business
costs (including profits) and aggregate consumer expenditure essential
to the continuous clearing of the market. For this continuity, there
must be an uninterrupted circuit flow of money from consumers to


---Economics-1944-0-14.txt---
producers and back from producers to consumers, against an equally
constant flow of goods and services in the opposite direction. Any
obstruction to the flow of business income, business outgo, consumer
income, or consumer expenditure-all of which are phases of the same
circuit flow of money-is like a stoppage on the assembly line. It
causes a slow-down or a breakdown in the whole works.
Saving, investment, and expansion. In general, the obstruction which
causes periodic breakdown lies in the process of cumulative saving
and investment, in their effect on the flow of consumer purchasing
power. (Note that I say "cumulative." Repairs and replacements are
costs, paid out of gross business income, and not out of savings from
net income.) Here we have the most critical, and still unsolved, prob-
lem of dynamic economy. The bottleneck which throws the whole sys-
tem out of gear is in the flow of money, either from producers to con-
sumers or the reverse. In either case it results from saving out of net
money income. In a word, the trouble is caused by that classic virtue,
thrift, although we usually reserve that word for the little man with
a small income.
The present is a poor time to argue against thrift-against cumu-
lative saving, investment, and expansion. We are in the anomalous
position, unique in our history, of a dangerous excess of consumer
monetary income over the supply of consumption goods. Our only
salvation from inflation is either more saving, voluntary or compulsory,
or more drastic taxation and price control than Congress, bedeviled
by pressure groups, sees fit to impose. But I am thinking not of the
next two years, or the next ten, but of a longer run of time, in the
belief, as I said at the beginning, that long-range forethought now may
save us many headaches later.
The commonly accepted theory is that saving (in the absence of
hoarding) cannot impair consumer demand, because saved money is
invested, and invested money is paid out for wages, whereupon it is
immediately spent for consumption goods. This theory is untenable.
Only about 60 per cent of invested money is paid out as wages. The
rest goes elsewhere. A very significant part of income derived from
invested savings is in its turn saved, cumulatively. Not all of it gets
back promptly to the flow of consumer purchasing power. It can be
shown that in a continuous series of cumulative re-savings and re-
investments, some of the money never gets back.
Since the only use of cumulative saving and investment is to expand
production, the process of expansion in part defeats its own purpose,
which is to expand the market for consumption goods. At first thought
this does not make sense, since it is incontrovertible that, in the course
of its long history, capitalism has tremendously expanded saving,


---Economics-1944-0-15.txt---
investment, production, and the market. The answer is that the expan-
sion process, based on saving and curtailment of consumer buying,
involves periodic overinvestment, overproduction, and underconsump-
tion, and hence the business depressions which it is certainly one
imperative task of private enterprise to eliminate.
Rejecting this line of theory, or oblivious to its long-run implica-
tions, nearly all business men and many economists hold that full
employment can be maintained only through continuous cumulative
saving and continual building of more capital plant. This is the phi-
losophy of expansion, faith in which we come by quite naturally.
Capitalism, the only system we have lived under, has had no experience
(save for depressions) with anything but expansion-increasing popu-
lation, new natural resources, and geographically expanding markets.
We take these conditions as matter-of-course, almost inherent in the
permanent order of things. But in the long view, they decidedly are
not permanent conditions. Those who hold that we are becoming a
"mature economy" nave some pertinent facts on their side, although
I do not agree with them that the only way private enterprise can
operate in a mature economy is with the help of government spending
and deficit financing.
Highlighted by Mill's four fundamental propositions, the philosophy
of thrift and expansion was developed when British industry, on the
make, had unprecedented, and seemingly unending, opportunity for
expansion, and when, in consequence, there seemed no limit, ever, to
the need for additional investment funds. Orthodox economists held
that saving could not possibly impair consumer purchasing power.
Ignoring the role of money they were convinced that neither over-
saving nor overproduction was possible. Taking their particular era
of economic history as universal, they did just what we are doing
today: they assumed that expansion can go on forever.
Now, unquestionably, we can build more steel mills, to construct
more factories, to build more locomotives, to haul more trains-but,
somewhere along the line this house-that-Jack-built process has to
terminate, for all these capital instruments are merely accessories to
an increase in the final output of consumption goods. The philosophy
of expansion is a dangerous philosophy, for the simple reason that
expansion can not go on forever. Business policy based on such a
philosophy will work when expansion, as now, is essential. It will work
as long as expansion enough to absorb savings is possible; but viewed
in time perspective, it is in the nature of short-run temporizing, and
it is bound to lay up trouble sooner or later.
Parenthetically, I must note, too, that economists for whom I have
the greatest respect are, like many industrialists, enthusiastic about


---Economics-1944-0-16.txt---
technological progress, new commodities, and new industries. Their
economic theory has the dynamic quality, but it lacks the sense of
repose that we associate with true art. But let us pass that by. The
practical consideration is that they fail to remember that many new
gadgets, and even whole new industries, are in the main substitutes
for old ones, and do not add, quantitatively, either to employment or
to the supply of goods. A good deal that looks like expansion is merely
ripping out one machine to put in another, with all the tremendous
premature obsolescence costs in the aggregate involved. It is an error
to assume that technological research and technological change are
the only assured bases for expanding employment. As long as there
are 20 million (is it?) houses without bathtubs, it is not essential that
we scrap our facilities for making white tubs and go over to pink or
yellow ones.
To come back for a moment from these long-run considerations to
the situation we shall face in the immediate post-war years: We shall
unquestionably need billions of dollars' worth of plant expansion. But
there is grave danger that business, in its enthusiasm and its desire to
cash in on the huge backlog of consumer demand, will unpremeditatedly
plunge the country into a runaway boom, bound to be followed by
depression. There is danger that within ten years we may build the
new capital we would normally build in thirty years, and that then
we shall find ourselves vainly hunting for investment opportunity for
an unmanageable volume of savings-if, in the meantime, the habit
of saving has not been effectively discouraged. For a time, we can
rely on the export of capital for the industrialization of the backward
countries, provided we wish to take the risks and are willing to face
the political problems involved. But sooner or later, this outlet, too,
will close. Considering the accelerated tempo of modern enterprise,
we may reach such an impasse within a generation.
Today, business men fear a scarcity of investment funds. On the
other hand, some economists think the problem will be to find invest-
ment outlet for the huge annual volume of savings which they assume
will continue to be made. Business men want savings for expansion;
these economists want expansion to absorb savings. In the long run,
both are wrong. The error of business is failure to understand the rela-
tion between cumulative saving and the consumer market. The error
in theory is the assumption that the propensity to save is constant
through time, regardless of institutional changes.
The distribution of income. The relation of the volume of saving to
the distribution of income is well known. Most of our billions of dollars
of annual savings normally come from the upper income brackets, and
from corporate surpluses. The way to prevent excess investment funds


---Economics-1944-0-17.txt---
is to remove their source. One source, corporation saving, can be
taken care of by less conservative dividend policies. It will be easier
for corporations to pay out their net earnings in dividends as they
are earned, if other measures, necessary for the stability of private
enterprise, diminish the likelihood of serious depressions. The other
source, saving out of personal incomes, can be rendered less of a drain
on consumer purchasing power by modification of the distribution of
money income. The propensity to save, which is a parameter of the
size of individual incomes, can be reduced all along the line by cutting
down the very large incomes from which the bulk of savings comes.
There is not much doubt, indeed, that we shall retain, indefinitely,
very high taxation of these incomes. We need not be overly impressed
by the cry that high taxes impair economic incentive. The trend of
wage rates will continue upward. This will be all to the good, in raising
the standard of living and providing industry with adequate markets.
With less inequality in incomes, we may hope for wider dispersion in
in the ownership of corporate securities, provided blind reactionism
does not hamstring the S.E.C. Finally, I think we can rely to some
extent on the growing aversion to conspicuous consumption, and the
change in esthetic standards which I have mentioned.
However it comes about, there is no one thing which in the long run
will do private enterprise more good than a very material change in
the distribution of the national dividend. Earlier, I advocated greater
equality as essential to the development and efficient utilization of our
human resources. I am here advocating it in the interest of private
enterprise itself. It is the only condition under which business can be
assured a full and continuous market.
Business men want private enterprise because, they say, it is the
most productive system possible. They do not know that to be actual
fact. It is an article of faith with them. The truth is that business men
want private enterprise because it is their way of life. They are not
to be blamed for such an attitude; we all have it. But we should not
overlook the lack of disinterested objectivity in the encomiums which
private business heaps upon itself. Such unstinted praise does not
reflect a wise modesty. But underneath the seeming cocksureness of
business propaganda, one discerns the evidences of a new sense of
responsibility, based partly on the fear-which I think excessive-
that private enterprise is on trial and that its survival is doubtful.
Whether there is also the breadth of vision, the farsightedness, and the
humility and docility necessary to learning what the requisites for
survival are, time will tell.
The American people want private enterprise, not on any arbitrary,
take-it-or-leave-it terms, but on the understanding that it will have


---Economics-1944-0-18.txt---
the flexibility necessary for adaptation to changing social conditions
and values. It is safe to say that they will not give it that carte blanche
which reactionaries, yearning for the days of laissez faire, demand,
under the undefined term freedom of enterprise. The American people
want private enterprise, under necessary controls, because it is their
way of life also. As Mr. Wallace recently intimated, private enterprise,
like any other institution, is an economic instrument, not an end-value.'
Nevertheless, we shall not easily be divorced from it. Just how far it
can fall short of "full production and jobs enough to go around," and
still survive, no one knows. All are agreed, I think, that it could not
survive many more deep and prolonged depressions. It is apparently
in the back of the minds of some busineess leaders that even one more
serious depression would put a strain on it which it might stand and
might not. Private business can avoid this trial, not by blaming every-
thing on "bureaucracy" and "regimentation," nor by shouting freedom
from the housetops, but by understanding the conditions permanently
necessary for full production and full employment.
To judge private enterprise, however, or any other system, merely
on its power of survival is to put the whole matter on too low a plane.
Private enterprise should be evaluated on its ability to approach the
specifications of the ideal economy, to conform to the fundamental
principles of economy, and to maximize per capita real income. The
American people are going to make far more exacting demands on their
economy in the future than they have in the past. Private enterprise
has done so well that it will have to do much better. Business men will
have to raise their sights and extend their range.
To what extent are we reducing, or can we reduce, the great obstacles
to approach to ideal economy-namely the disturbing effects of tech-
nological change, the pressure of religious and moral traditionalism,
the disruptive influences of acquisitive and power motives, and the
characteristics of our present economy, especially the great extremes
in the distribution of money income, which stand in the way of a
balanced and continuous market for goods?
As to the abolition of want the world over, I am frankly pessimistic,
until a real solution of the population problem, a solution now blocked
by religious prejudice, is possible. For our domestic economy, I am
optimistic, but with reservations. I believe that my impression of
growing breadth of perspective and increasing sense of social responsi-
bility on the part of business leaders is not wrong. If it has been
difficult, in the past few months, to maintain equal faith in the public
Address before the Herald-Tribune Forum, November, 1943. Published in full in the
New York Times, November 18, 1943.


---Economics-1944-0-19.txt---
spirit of some labor and agricultural leaders, we ought to remember
that Rome was not built in a day, and that faith may be justified by
patience. If I am optimistic about the potential ability of private enter-
prise to abolish poverty in America, to maintain full employment, and
to maintain the full and continuous market for consumption goods,
without which economic stability is impossible, my optimism is dis-
tinctly conditional. Business must be willing to give up some of its
freedom to obtain the essential economic coordination which mere
freedom itself can never secure. It must realize that with full and
continuous market, aggregate profits will be satisfactory even with
very low profit margins and low marginal productivity of capital. It
must give up its cartels and its restriction of output. In a word, it must
cast its bread upon the waters, in the faith that the prosperity of a
hundred million consumers means the prosperity of industry.
There is much to be said, after all, for the ivory tower. You can see
farther and more clearly from it than you can from the ground. It is
probable there are other-it is barely possible there are better-qualifi-
cations for the policy-maker than having had at some time to meet a
payroll. Small men will always sneer at the "theorist." It is the readiest
way to conceal ignorance. But every policy is based on theory of some
sort; and every theory back of social policy will be found in the final
analysis to be based on a scale of values, some sort of ethics, whether
democratic or otherwise.
This is why I think we need more depth and breadth in the education
of prospective economists and political scientists. I do not think that
we can assume that all the men and women who go through the infor-
mational and analytical courses of our graduate and professional
schools come out with an understanding either of the broad foundations
of democratic ethics, or of the elementary meaning of economy, looked
at from the over-all social point of view. A multitude of technical
tasks require the services of a host of technically trained experts. We
have answered this demand, but we have not sufficiently emphasized
the solid liberal education necessary to anything more. We tend to
leave broad questions of policy to others, or to the unanalyzed preju-
dices of our own subconscious social philosophy, which we have not
had the time, or the courage, to take out and examine. Economists, and
political scientists, have not demanded enough of themselves.
The difference between the statesman and the politician is that the
politician is mainly concerned with the compromises, log-rolling, and
organization necessary to getting immediate jobs done, while the states-
man looks broadly to the future. Politicians are as necessary to demo-
cratic government as experts are to technology and industry. But they
are not sufficient to our needs. As Madam Chiang Kai-shek reminded


---Economics-1944-0-20.txt---
us in her magnificent address to the Congress last year, we should not
be visionary, but we should have vision. Without vision the people
perish. Vision means imagination, ideals, and values. The true states-
man has vision. If, in the past decade, we have had some adroit and
successful politics, we have also had magnificent and far-sighted states-
manship. And now? Now, and in the post-war years, there is as great
need as we have ever had for statesmanship broad in perspective, deep
in insight, forward-looking not only to tomorrow but to future genera-
tions, and with the ability, not only to make the pragmatic compro-
mises necessary in the exigencies and conflicts of the moment, but to
hold a steady and undaunted course toward the fuller and fairer realiza-
tion of the values that civilized men and women live by.
The country, the world, needs men-informed men and women-
who, with their feet on the hard ground of facts, give thought to basic,
permanent values, and to the broad and long-run policies required for
their realization. The call is not to men and women of superficial insight
or narrow sympathies. It is a clarion call to young economists and
political scientists-young in spirit if not in years-to hear and to heed,
each according to his faith in his own developed capacities. So I say to
them, as I say to the business men: Lift up your sights; extend your
range.


---Economics-1945-0-02.txt---
"Lift up your sights; extend your range." With these words my
predecessor A. B. Wolfe closed his presidential address a year ago. In
response to his exhortation, I wish to open up with you a large subject
that is not merely of deep concern to American economists now. It
reaches beyond the borders of economics, back into the past and forward
into the future, unto the uttermost parts of the earth.
Professor Wolfe's rifle-firing analogy is highly appropriate in pro-
fessions that strive to be worthy of the adjective "scientific." We need
more sharpshooting, less waste of scattered fire. Some of the proper
targets of our aim are balloons that invite puncturing-loose ideas and
vague phrases that befog thinking, slogans that masquerade as prin-
ciples. No less worthy targets are the cords that hold the veil over truths
of importance, old or new.
G. P. Watkins did not exaggerate when he wrote thirty years ago:
"The standard of life is the central fact in the dynamics of consumption,
and hence is of dominant importance for the theory of economic and
social progress... ."' Yet before the theoretical basis has been adequately
worked out, great issues involving it have been forced upon us.
The phrase "standard of living" is in constant use-whether we deal
with the history of the past century or two, the pre-war situation,
current wartime problems, those of the war-peace transition, or the
post-war world-whether we discuss facts, goals, or ideals, actual condi-
tions or potentialities-whether we stop with description and analysis
or seek to formulate policy and set up new institutions-whether we


---Economics-1945-0-03.txt---
are concerned with our own country, backward areas, or the entire
world. Nowadays, indeed, "raising the standard of living" is increas-
ingly urged as the basic objective of high policy, national and inter-
national.
In our, highly dynamic world it is not enough for social scientists
to provide an orderly description of life as it is and to analyze social
forces as they currently operate. We are necessarily concerned with the
evolution of the social economy-local, national, and world-and with
the results of experiments, by whatever name they are called, that affect
this evolution. We cannot be content with describing and measuring
what are variously called standards of living, and with analyzing the
ways in which they change. We must also be concerned with aspects
of the problems involved in raising or otherwise improving them.
But what does "the standard of living" mean? Is it what is actually
experienced? Or what is worked for, or hoped for, or merely dreamed
of? Is its central feature total or average income, or consumption ex-
penditures unadjusted or adjusted for price changes? Do possessions
as well as fresh acquisitions enter into it? Is it simply "real consump-
tion," or does it include other components such as savings, hours of
labor, and literacy? Do freedoms of various kinds figure in it? Is it
concerned with "input" or with "outcome," with utilization or with net
results in health, efficiency, and satisfactions? Is it something charac-
teristic of the individual or group concerned, or something devised from
the outside? Does it include components that cannot be measured?
Merely to ask these questions is to reveal the prevalent confusion
of thought. In professional groups, in banking, business, and official
circles, and by the man in- the street, "standard of living" is used in
all of these senses and others. Even among economists and statesmen, it
currently means several quite different things. For each of these a
distinctive phrase with a fairly definite meaning must be employed if
serious errors are to be avoided. It is high time to reform our careless
habits of talking about "standards of living."
Basic Concepts
The chief distinctions to be drawn are between consumption and
living, and between level and standard. The basic concepts are four:
(1) consumption level, (2) consumption standard, (3) level or plane
of living, and (4) standard of living in the strict sense. The relation-
ships among these several realities are highly significant. Nothing is
gained, and much is lost, by the indiscriminate use of a single phrase
for these four different concepts and others besides.
Consumption means the commodities, their uses, and services con-


---Economics-1945-0-04.txt---
sumed; living includes consumption and much more: working condi-
tions, cushions against major and minor shocks, freedoms of various
kinds, and what I tentatively call "atmosphere." The level of con-
sumption or living, as I see it, is that actually experienced, enjoyed,
or suffered by the individual or group; the standard of consumption or
living is the level that is urgently desired and striven for, special
gratification attending substantial success and substantial failure yield-
ing bitter frustration.
These distinctions, far too important to be safely ignored or obscured,
are not really difficult to grasp and apply. In daily life we are con-
tinually aware that our operating standards are not identical with
the perfect or the ideal. We readily admit disparities between our
individual standards of order, cleanliness, honesty, courtesy, workman-
ship, etc., and the levels of our actual performance. Roughly, if not by
some form of average, we are accustomed to distinguishing between
group standards and levels in these and other respects. Even in the
fields of government and administration, experts and observers alike
find no difficulty in differentiating between performance levels, current
operating standards, and vaunted ideals.
Differences in planes of living are by no means proportionate to
differences in consumption levels. It is entirely possible for consump-
tion levels to rise while planes of living fall, for consumption standards
to rise while consumption levels remain depressed, and so on. In some
countries advance in per capita consumption levels is the principal
factor promoting advance in consumption and living standards; in
others raising consumption standards is prerequisite to raising consump-
tion levels and planes of living. When planes of living are forced down,
as occurs in very different ways in depression and war, radical readjust-
ment of current standards of consumption and living is necessary to
avert social disaster; and such disaster is inevitable if margins for
readjustment of levels or ability to readjust standards are lacking.
In expressing policy aims for the post-war period, for the United
States, for other advanced countries, or for those that are more or less
backward, it is important to be clear as to whether the broad objective
is to raise consumption levels (as most spokesmen now seem to mean),
or planes of living (which I consider a far superior aim), or standards
of consumption or living (which may also be desirable).
Consumption Levels and Standards
Actual consumption or consumption level is a valuable concept, es-
sential in many phases of analysis; but it should be called by its right
name and no other. It is a sort of aggregate of the food, fuel, and other
nondurable goods used up, the services of houses, automobiles, clothing,


---Economics-1945-0-05.txt---
and other durable and semidurable goods utilized, and the services of
human beings used, by an individual or group, in a given period of time.
What is miscalled the decline of the "standard of living," in depression
or war, usually means such reduction in the quantity or quality (or
both) of many of the goods which people consume, that their net
aggregate consumption falls. A rise in the consumption level means an
increase in the volume of actual consumption, and/or improvement in
its quality, such as typically occurs in boom periods and in recovery
from depression or war. Precise degrees of increase or reduction in con-
sumption levels are not readily measured, but either is easily recog-
nized by the individual or group concerned, and usually by outsiders
also. The reduction or increase is never uniform among all goods con-
sumed; it is accompanied by changes in composition and proportions.
Nutritionists know that a balanced diet for an individual provides
not only essential numbers of calories but also minimum or optimum
amounts of proteins, several vitamins., and several minerals. The re-
quired amounts and proportions vary with age, sex, weight, occupation,
exposure, and other factors, and even for broad averages "require-
ments" are not yet determined with precision. An individual can get a
balanced diet from a large number of possible combinations of foods,
varying through a wide range in selection, consumer appeal, and cost.
The fact of balance is likewise fundamental in consumption as a
whole, though criteria for determining lack of balance in consumption
are far less developed than in the science of nutrition. Most individuals
are conscious of any severe disturbance of their consumption balance,
while minor disturbances may pass unnoticed. One rarely finds a grand
piano in a hovel, a gourmet in tatters, or a new Rolls-Royce sported
by one who enjoys no other comforts or luxuries. Misjudgments in
choosing a home or a car, however, not infrequently entail unexpected
sacrifices in food, clothing, or leisure. Essentials for health may be
unconsciously or deliberately sacrificed to transitory pleasures or to the
acquisition of extended training. In our eyes bric-a-brac held too high
a place in Victorian consumption. In retrospect it may appear that
gadgets, gewgaws, and gimcracks loom too large in our own. Among the
most important tasks of education in various forms is facilitating
improvement in the balance of consumption, -such as the individual or
group concerned will recognize and value.
Consumption may be such as merely to sustain life,' at a minimum
or conventional level; it is in this sense that the obsolete phrase "means
of subsistence" was long used. It may go further and enhance the
productive power of the consumer and/or enrich the quality of life. On
the other hand, consumption may be so distorted as to diminish health
and life expectancy, reduce productive power, and impoverish the


---Economics-1945-0-06.txt---
quality of the life lived. Physical environment, occupational status, and
skill in choosing and using goods have much to do with the volume
and composition of consumption required to yield a given level or
content of living. Equal or equivalent aggregates of goods consumed do
not insure equivalent planes of living for the thrifty and the spendthrift,
the sober and the drunk, a Californian and a Minnesotan, a university
professor and a shipyard worker, a mid-western farmer and a New
York City business man, a 16-year-old boy and a 60-year-old woman, a
Frenchman and an American.
Deterioration of the consumption level is rarely proportional to its
quantitative decline. Raising the consumption level by no means insures
significant improvement in it. In our American life, there is wide scope
for improving the consumption level without raising it and while re-
ducing some elements in it. Overeating and other excesses in consump-
tion frequently entail not only waste but positive injury, and some cur-
tailment may be essential to improvement of the consumption balance.
Losses of vitamins and minerals in food preparation can be minimized
by methods that improve palatability as well as nutritive content, and
better satisfaction of needs and wants achieved even with reduced con-
sumption. The ways in which enlarged purchasing power is utilized
profoundly influence the net result in terms of living.
For such reasons, measures of consumption levels afford no reliable
indexes to planes of living. Broadly speaking, consumption comprehends
what is used, while living is more concerned with the net outcome in
relation to deep-seated cravings, basic needs, and other wants.
Acquisition for consumption by purchase, another concept in common
use, is by no means identical with actual consumption. Important
progress has been made in analyzing and forecasting consumption ex-
penditures, and from these, adjusted for changes in prices, are derived
valuable indexes of what is sometimes miscalled "real consumption"
or the "standard of living." Publicity has recently been given to such
indexes purporting to show that the British consumption level of 1943
had fallen 21 per cent below that of 1939, while the American had risen
15 per cent.2 Actually, whatever the virtues of these comparative
figures, they are not reliable indexes of the two consumption levels.
They necessarily ignore elements of consumption that do not enter into
exchange, the consumption of purchased goods already possessed, many
types of quality change, and important distributive aspects hidden
behind aggregates and averages.
In the simpler days of the past, self-service, mutual service, and


---Economics-1945-0-07.txt---
barter loomed large compared with pecuniary exchange. In parts of the
present-day world, and even in some parts of modern life, these non-
pecuniary areas are by no means negligible, and they are capable of
expansion under stress of depression or war. Victory gardens present
one striking example. Moreover, where consumers possess large stocks
of durable and semidurable consumer goods, consumption expenditures
may shrink or expand materially without affecting current consumption
in any comparable degree. It is a serious blunder to confuse consumption
expenditures with consumption, and to infer that changes in either
income or consumption expenditures, however deflated, imply corre-
sponding changes in the plane of living.
Consumption levels are profoundly influenced by changing consump-
tion standards, but are by no means identical with them. The consump-
tion standard of an individual or group is the consumption level that is
earnestly desired and eagerly striven for, in respect of quantities,
qualities, and proportions of the various goods consumed or wanted
for consumption. In the Western World, the consumption standard is
typically above the consumption level proper; but it is not an ideal
or a mere dream. Nor can it safely be raised, even for future applica-
tion, too far above the level actually attainable. We court disillusion-
ment and frustration if we inflate our consumption standards for the
post-war period to the point of insuring failure to approach them.
The consumption standard actually held by an individual or group,
its very own standard, must be sharply distinguished from those de-
vised by outsiders-legal, expert, or otherwise. Such external or norma-
tive standards typically refer only to particular components, not to the
entire consumption level. Sometimes they are legal minima, as in the
fields of education and housing. Sometimes they are recommended
optima, with liberal margins of safety, as are the Food and Nutrition
Board's Recommended Daily Allowances of the various nutrients.
Sometimes they are more or less well-based opinions as to what would
be "good for" the individual or group in question. The standard cost-
of-living budgets proposed by the Heller Committee of the University
of California are composites of the estimated consumption expenditure
standards of the group, padded to meet certain "standards" regarded
as objectively established and others devised by the authors.
Many such external standards can be used so as to contribute to
improvement in consumption levels. By no means all of them, how-
ever, are reliable, in general or in detail, or acceptable to the intended
beneficiaries. If applied under pressure, indeed, some may lead to a
patent imbalance in the content of living, rendering it less satisfactory
than before. In inter-war British experience, certain improvements in


---Economics-1945-0-08.txt---
the housing of working people are said to have led to deterioration in
health because higher rentals left less to be spent for food. The excep-
tionally high percentage of literacy attained by the Japanese may have
entailed excessive sacrifices in their consumption level as a whole.
Fundamentally important though good nutrition is, it. cannot be
expected that individuals or groups will give it complete primacy
among their wants. The poorest insist on their luxuries. Sir William
Petty found that Irish peasants of the mid-seventeenth century, living
in utter squalor on very poor diets, spent two-sevenths as much on
tobacco as on food.3 In parts of India the ryot living in dire poverty
extravagantly gratified "his passion for marrying off his daughters
expensively, and giving his father an elaborate funeral."4
In general, optimum standards in respect to specific needs are rarely
attainable if the consumption level of the individual or group is neces-
sarily deficient in several respects. This is not generally realized. If
the attainable average level is, say, only 50 per cent of the most con-
servative optimum, 100 per cent plus a margin of safety will rarely be
aimed at in any one phase of consumption, e.g., nutrition. Under such
circumstances, some sacrifices of needs to preferences is almost in-
evitable.
Plane or Content of Living
The most important single concept in this field is often reasonably
called the plane or level of living. The word "content" better suggests
a more than two-dimensional quantity, something in which composition
and quality as well as size are important, and something to which one
can apply not merely the adjectives high-low but also such others as
superior-inferior, expensive-thrifty, elaborate-simple, and ample-
restricted. "Improving the content of living" is much more meaningful
than "raising the plane of living." The words "plane" and "level,"
however, are convenient to use with this enriched meaning.
The plane or content of living is a reality experienced by an indi-
vidual or group. It is made up of a complex combination of consumption,
working conditions, possessions, freedoms, and "atmosphere," and the
balance or harmony among them, in relation to needs and felt wants.
Consumption includes having available, as well as using, free goods
of nature and public goods that are utilized without charge, and self-
service and mutual service, in addition to purchased commodities and
services and the use of semidurable and durable goods owned or rented.

---Economics-1945-0-09.txt---
Working conditions include hours, variety, and intensity of labor,
provision for health, safety, comfort, convenience, and training if neces-
sary, regularity of employment and security of tenure, opportunity for
advancement, personnel relationships, even beauty of working environ-
ment-and lacks in these several respects.
By possessions I mean physical stocks of goods, savings and invest-
ments, insurance protection and related rights, developed abilities and
connections, and other reserves for cushioning the actual or potential
shocks of life.
Among freedoms are included not merely freedom of religion, ex-
pression, movement, association, and participation in government, but
also freedoms to learn and to earn, to choose one's occupation, to select
among a variety of goods that combination which suits one, to venture
and to advance or fail.
Under atmosphere I include such assets as the sense of being
wanted, of security, of harmony with one's fellows-in home, school,
farm or factory, community, and the larger world-and such liabilities
as repellent fears of death, illness, friendlessness, unemployment, war,
and the strains incident to broken homes and to heightened uncertain-
ties of many kinds. The hope of progress, or lack of it, is often a
highly important element.
All of these and more, I think you will agree, figure in the individual's
content of living. Each of us can readily estimate how a change in any
element in this complex has affected or would affect his own plane of
living. With larger margins of error, we can understand them as apply-
ing to groups small and large.
Neither individual nor group is continually conscious of all such
components in the plane of living, or can be fully articulate about its
details. But the same is true of the individual's philosophy of life and
the policy of a nation: they exist even if not comprehensively formu-
lated and clearly expressed. Some components of the plane of living,
indeed, are taken for granted or lie dormant, as it were, until some
crisis reveals their existence or removal. The preciousness of life itself
is seldom acutely realized until it is in danger of being lost. Many
Americans were hardly aware of the degree to which they cherished
certain freedoms and atmosphere elements until, with Pearl Harbor,
these were threatened, curtailed, or lost.
It is highly important that we should not overlook or ignore these
non-consumption components. In the improvement in the American
plane of living over a generation or a century, it is beyond question that
reductions in full-time working hours, betterment of factory and farm
conditions of work, enlargement of insurance protection in many forms,
and increasing freedom from isolation which the telephone, automobile,


---Economics-1945-0-10.txt---
movie, and radio have brought, have figured heavily along with in-
creased volume and variety of consumption itself. The increasing prev-
alence of nonessentials which yield satisfaction out of all proportion to
their cost-of which the radio-is an outstanding example-deserves
special emphasis.
The character of the content of living, like that of consumption,
depends upon its composition or structure, in particular upon the degree
of harmony or balance among its components. Within limits, one ele-
ment may be accepted in substitution for another: heavier consumption
may offset less desirable working conditions, consumption may be sacri-
ficed for added freedom, larger savings may offset consumption restric-
tions, and so on. Beyond certain limits, however, further restrictions of
consumption, possessions, or freedoms is reckoned intolerable, no matter
how ample other elements in the complex may be.
Improvement in the content of living can often be brought about
more easily and more substantially by limited changes in its structure
than by increase in the consumption level as a whole. As in Liebig's law
of the minimum and its variants in science and economics, a favorable
change in some highly deficient component may so improve the whole
content that reductions in some others will cause no injury. Here is a
valuable hint toward the technique of improving the living planes of
depressed groups or peoples whose productive or earning power is low.
A well-balanced simple plane of living may be definitely superior to
an ill-balanced elaborate plane, just as a cheap, balanced diet is more
nutritious, and perhaps even more satisfying, than an expensive, ill-
balanced one. A very low plane or poor content of living, however,
makes the individual or group weak and vulnerable. The Irish famine
of the 1840's was so devastating because the huge population largely
subsisted on the cheapest carbohydrate and had no reserves to fall
back on when blight ravaged the potato crop. Probably the worst
damage to conquered European peoples in this war has been suffered
by the Poles and the Greeks, whose plane of living had been low.
A high, balanced, ample plane or content of living, on the other hand,
is a source of strength to the individual, group, or nation. Among other
things, it permits substantial shrinkage in one or more components to
occur without serious damage. Typically, cuts are taken where they
hurt least, instead of at vital points. The amazing record of the United
States during the present war is heavily attributable to the realized
possibilities of drawing upon various reserves implicit in our ample and
expensive pre-war content of living. By utilizing our huge stock of
durable consumer goods, and foregoing most additions to and improve-
ments in them, we could divert our plants and engineering primarily to
war purposes. We could expand employment and lengthen the working


---Economics-1945-0-11.txt---
week, and enlarge our agricultural output with fewer farm workers.
We could readjust our content and standards of living without radical
injury to health, efficiency, or morale.
Similar factors go far to explain the survival of the United Kingdom
when her engulfment seemed to many inevitable, her leadership in the
war before Pearl Harbor, and her effective continued partnership in
subsequent years. Far more than Americans, the British have demon-
strated remarkable ability to tolerate drastic shrinkage of their ac-
customed content of living and yet maintain their health, efficiency,
and balance. Germans, Russians, and Japanese have all displayed un-
expected reserves above bare subsistence that could be devoted first
to armament in all its phases and then to prosecution of the war itself.
The present vulnerability of Germany and Japan lies partly in the
narrower margins they have for contracting their planes of living,
hence the smaller reserves that they can draw upon to avert defeat.
Standards of Living
The standard of living, in its most significant sense, is the plane or
content of living which an individual or group earnestly seeks and
strives to attain, to maintain if attained, to preserve if threatened, and
to regain if lost. Though influenced by subjective factors and not easy
to ascertain with precision, it is no less a reality than the experienced
content of living. It is likewise made up of components urgently wanted
and worked for, not of dreams or visions, but in various respects it is
typically ampler than the current plane of living.
The relationship between level and corresponding standard is of
profound significance. This is one basic reason for sharpening the dis-
tinctions on which I insist. The urgent, unsatisfied wants may be for
additional consumer goods or a better quality of them, for shorter hours
of work or more regular employment, for better protection against
illness, death, war, and depressions, for enlarged freedom to learn,
speak, vote, travel, or shift occupation, for greater harmony in the
home, factory, community, nation, and community of nations. It is this
margin between standard and content of living that furnishes essential
incentives to achieve an ampler content of living. Indeed, here is a major
reason why some countries have achieved political and economic ad-
vances, and why population growth has slowed down in the Western
World. Even where in our eyes the standards are grotesquely distorted,
as most of us believe to be true of those developed under the Hitler
regime in Germany, we recognize the power of the incentives provided
by the difference between plane and standard.
Where level and standard are virtually identical, the individuals con-


---Economics-1945-0-12.txt---
cerned are either content with their lot or despair of improving it,
so that incentives to progress are lacking. Conceivably this may be true
of the great majority of mankind, who subsist on very low levels under
the pressure of hopelessness. There is a vicious circle of gross poverty,
inefficiency, and stagnation if not retrogression. One of the most
ominous facts of today is that the greater part of the world's net increase
of population is taking place where such conditions prevail. Among such
peoples, a prerequisite to improving their consumption level and con-
tent of living may be to get them first to raise their standards by stimu-
lating fresh wants and loosening the grip of custom and fatalism.
Marked disparity between standard and content of living, however,
often has serious consequences. The strains imposed by the severely
shrunken content of living in the Great Depression of the 1930's are
vivid in our recollections. It may well be that at its worst people were
generally better off, in various essentials, than in fairly prosperous times
fifty years earlier. Even so, the sharp contrast between what they had
and what they urgently wanted and felt they had reason to expect was
extremely hard to bear. In depression and in war, it is only by painful
readjustment of current standards that the conditions become endur-
able.
People differ greatly, of course, in their preferred patterns of living.
The French are noted for their consumption efficiency; on smaller
volumes of consumption, they can live better than many other peoples
can. By contrast, Americans are notoriously wasteful in their consump-
tion habits, and therefore require a far larger volume of consumption
to yield the same results in terms of living. Some individuals, groups,
and peoples set great store by security and leisure, while others prefer
to work harder and accept ups and downs if they can enjoy conveni-
ence, variety, and a sense of opulence. Freedoms of various kinds are
much dearer to some groups than to others. Certain characteristics of
the standards of living of a people or group get crystallized into the
structure of their planes of living.
Large portions of mankind, now as in the past, rate status and sta-
bility very high in their standard of living. For many individuals and
groups, however, not only change but what is considered progress is a
vital element in the standard itself. Mere achievement of a specific
plane of living is not enough. Their standard of living includes the
continued sense of achieving advances. In effect, their standard is typi-
cally rising, and mere failure to advance spells deprivation if not frus-
tration.
In the face of assumptions that standards of consumption and living
are more or less stable, the fact of changes in standards deserves re-
newed emphasis.


---Economics-1945-0-13.txt---
Standards of living most obviously change for individuals, as they
progress from infancy through childhood, adolescence, youth, maturity,
family life in its successive phases, and old age. Needs, preferences, and
priorities alter through this human cycle. For the family groups in
which most individuals live, moreover, standards of living change as the
group's composition undergoes successive alterations. They also change
for communities as these grow or decline and are affected by outside
forces as well as by internal evolution. They change for nations, as
we have witnessed repeatedly in the past thirty years. We are now in
the throes of changes in the standards of living of the community of
nations.
Standards change both under the pressure of necessity and under
the pull of opportunity. They change under the influence of physiologi-
cal, psychological, and social factors or forces. Major transitions from
one standard to another inevitably involve pain, sometimes more than
offset by compensations, whether the cause is birth or death, marriage
or divorce, prosperity or depression, threat of war or prospect of peace.
Alongside the current standard of living in the strict sense just ex-
plained, there is the deferred standard of living. Young people in high
* school or college, engaged couples looking forward to marriage, older
folk looking forward to retirement, and people in general in the midst
of depression and war, all develop more or less articulate ideas as to
the kind of living they urgently want when a stage looked forward to
is reached. Though recognized as a standard for deferred application,
this figures in the atmosphere components of the current plane and
standard of living. Individual and group morale depends heavily on the
character of such deferred standards. If these seem reasonably at-
tainable in the not too distant future, current standards will be re-
adjusted so that the current living content will be tolerable even if it is
grossly inferior to former standards in respect of consumption, work-
ing conditions, and freedoms. If it seems hopeless to expect to regain
former standards, to say nothing of attaining ampler ones, the atmos-
phere component of current living is so profoundly affected that the
basis for revolutionary explosions is laid.
The deferred standard of living, indeed, frequently rises during a
period of severely depressed planes of living. In this country,consump-
tion standards rose strikingly above predepression levels during the
1930's, especially in respect to durable consumers' goods. Technical
improvements, cost reductions, low-price policies, and effective advertis-
ing led to impressive enlargement of the role of many durable consumer
goods in American life. This culminated in the huge output and pur-
chases of durable consumer goods in 1941. It is not yet generally


---Economics-1945-0-14.txt---
appreciated how important a cushion against the wartime restrictions
since Pearl Harbor was provided by the heavy stocking up with dura-
ble and semidurable goods in the years 1938-41.
During the current war, in respect of consumption and adjustment
among the components of the content of living, our standards for de-
ferred application have risen strikingly. This is partly because of
technological improvements, prospects of cost reductions, hopes of
larger national income, and extensive advertising of goods and goals.
It is partly because millions have earned larger incomes, accumulated
more savings, and/or acquired more claims on future income than they
ever expected to have, and they feel justified in cherishing ampler and
better balanced deferred standards of living which a decade ago would
have seemed vain dreams. Meanwhile, other millions, who have had to
endure painful readjustments in their current content and standard
of living, feel justified in expecting at least to regain and even to im-
prove upon their former levels. Customer research organizations and
polls of public opinion have already scratched the surface of ascer-
taining some of the specific ways in which standards for post-war appli-
cation differ from the present content of living.
Now, however, we are in danger of erroneously forecasting the stand-
ard of living that Americans will choose after the war. I doubt very
much if we shall choose the combination of goods, work, freedoms, etc.,
that will yield a national income averaging 10-15 per cent above $1,000
per capita in 1943 dollars. Other factors aside, a good deal of the
increased money income during the war represents the extra inducement
to make sacrifices, for the time, in consumption, leisure, working con-
ditions, and freedoms. In the absence of national emergency even this
inducement would not suffice. From the standpoint of past and pros-
pective peacetime standards, we are considerably overemployed now.
When the war is really over, I do not believe that 60 million out of
135-140 million will choose to be "productively employed," if this is
interpreted in the usual narrow sense of excluding homemakers, vol-
unteer workers, the armed services, and those in various levels of
schooling, unless a far greater number engage in part-time employment
than is in prospect. The post-war standard of living that the people
actually choose will have more influence on the content of living than
the standards put forward by specialists, publicists, and political
leaders.
Conclusion
I have tried to make it easier to use a number of good terms with
fairly specific meanings, and to make it harder to use the phrase "stand-
ard of living" without pausing to consider which of a score of diverse


---Economics-1945-0-15.txt---
meanings is intended. I have also endeavored to bring into clearer view
a few truths that are too often obscured by loose thinking and speaking.
If time permitted, I should like to explore the subject much further:
to examine the impact of the present war on consumption and living
levels and standards, in the United States and other countries, and to
try to forecast the types of readjustment to be expected; to consider
some difficult problems of measurement, and the possibilites of deriving
significant indexes of planes of living; to inquire how far inter-group
and international differences in levels or standards are normal and
should persist, and to what degree steps toward what is miscalled
"equalization" are desirable and feasible; to elucidate further the
interrelationship between levels and standards, and changes in stand-
ards themselves; to analyze some promising techniques for improving
the plane or content of living where it is especially low or restricted;
and to reappraise standards of living in the Western World in the light
of world population trends.
These are some of the targets within range. I have ammunition to
spare, and am eager to test my markmanship further. But the order to
cease firing is about to be given, and I must conclude with a brief state-
ment of faith.
Improving planes and content of living, with due respect to varied
needs and preferences, is an eminently practical and wholesome over-
all objective of individual ambition and of national and international
policy. Achievement of such improvement is no mere humanitarian
dream. It is basic to attaining fuller utilization of available resources,
hence of serious concern to economists. It is fundamental to the main-
tenance of peace and orderly political progress, hence of serious con-
cern to political scientists as well.
Amid the strains and drains of war, it has been borne in upon us
that the world's productive powers are far larger than had been realized.
We are raising our sights and extending our range. Despite appalling
wastes and devastation, most of the vast accumulations of the ages
remain for widening use. Depletion of exhaustible resources has been
more than offset by new discoveries and techniques of substitution. War-
time pressures have compelled learning new arts and stimulated effec-
tive research into better means of satisfying wants for essentials, com-
forts, and luxuries. Science, technology, and management have achieved
near-miracles, and many more are in the offing. Increased mobility and
better communications facilitate co'operation over great distances.
New machinery for international operation is under construction.
We have much to learn and far to go before we shall attain the
understanding and master the techniques of social engineering that


---Economics-1945-0-16.txt---
the tasks call for. We must bravely face the prospect that nothing like
the full potentialities can be realized within calculable time. Even so,
there is ground for expecting that, in the next twenty to thirty years,
the planes of living of most of the world's peoples can be raised well
above the pre-war levels. Our own national interests are deeply involved
in translating this possibility into actual fact. The rate and degree of
progress in this direction will depend heavily upon the people and gov-
ernment of the United States. And important contributions from econ-
omists and other social scientists will be essential to sound progress
toward these reasonable goals.


---Economics-1946-0-03.txt---
In view of the fact that the war situation, though happily, in the end,
rendering possible our assembly here, has prevented the integration
of our discussions with those of other social science organizations, it
seems appropriate that this address should not confine itself to strictly
economic matters. More than ever the various social science disciplines
are closely interrelated. They find a common focus in the sphere of
public policy, especially as reflected in law and its development. My
observations, epitomized as the relationship between law and economics,
bear upon the processes of public control of economic activity.
I
As one scans the program of economic discussion being presented at
these meetings, it is obvious that its dominant emphasis is upon matters
of public policy.2
There, are sessions, it is true, devoted specifically to the interpretation
of recent economic history, the analysis of prevailing economic condi-
tions, the development of basic economic theorizing. But even these
discussions cannot escape the pervasive influence of the role of
government in the economic life of the nation. The inter-war economy
reflected in striking fashion both the relative public quiescence of the
1920's and the frantic governmental efforts at recovery and reform of
the 1930's. Interpretation of this period poses the problem of how
intimately collective action or inaction bore upon the great economic
debacle with which we came to be faced, and upon the many frustra-
tions, including the development of world conditions favorable to the
outbreak of international strife on an unprecedented scale, which
followed in its wake. Analysis of the changing structure of our


---Economics-1946-0-04.txt---
contemporary economy, with reference to such matters as the location
of industries, the distribution of manpower, the conditioning environ-
ment of financial practice, must find the roots of change, not only in
the extraordinary circumstances of the war effort, but in significant
preexisting tendencies; and pre-war developments, only to a lesser
degree than the pattern of the war economy, have drawn sustenance,
for good or for ill, from the character and direction of government in-
tervention. A like relevance is generally recognized in our theoretical
thinking concerning the over-all organization and functioning of the
economic order. Exploration of current advances in economic thought
cannot, with any approach to realism, be restricted to narrow technical
contributions in the traditional sphere of economic theory. There are
basic limitations upon the adequacy of economic law, either as a reliable
description of the complexities of prevailing economic processes or as
a fruitful practical guide to social policy. In thought as in action a
consideration of the reciprocal influence of freedom and control upon
the operation of the economy is indispensable to promising inquiry. At
this juncture it would obviously be folly to ignore the revealing
experience of the great depression and the world war, with their
extensive subordination of individual enterprise to collective action, or
the impact of this experience, whether deemed favorable or unfavorable
to public control, upon the character of post-war policies. Even
fundamental thinking must reflect at least the value implications of
important policy trends.
But the discussions at these meetings are more largely concerned
with direct issues of public policy, in relation to specific problems of
outstanding significance. Within the limits of a short few days, they
can traverse only a relatively small number of representative fields; but
in each instance the principal emphasis is upon governmental activity,
from the standpoint of the service or disservice of past performance
and of future threat or promise. This applies to the domestic as well
as to the international problems being explored. Actual or potential
measures of social cooperation embodied in legal requirements, in
numerous sectors of the economy and through a great variety of
expedients, provide much of the basic material for analysis and con-
stitute the major sources of controversy.
Such matters as monetary and fiscal policy, whether dealt with as
more or less self-contained segments of investigation or in relation to
the maintenance of economic stability at a high level of production and
employment, involve existing and proposed instruments and objectives
that go far beyond mere reliance upon automatic exchange mecha-
nisms or the traditional use of the spending and taxing powers of
government. Similarly, the economist's long-established convictions


---Economics-1946-0-05.txt---
concerning the fruitfulness of freedom of international trade and
investment have come to be conditioned, in light of the disruptive and
depressing effects of recent trends to economic autarchy, by the
efficacy of institutional arrangements for international economic
cooperation. Not only must consideration be given to the purposes and
probable results of such emerging world agencies as those for monetary
stabilization and economic reconstruction and development, but the
solution of numerous related problems is likewise dependent in large
measure upon concert of action. Problems of commercial policy, capital
movements, cartel arrangements, commodity agreements, technological
restrictions, shipping adjustments, agricultural relationships-whether
ostensibly attacked as matters primarily of national concern or frankly
viewed in their international implications as well as in their domestic
aspects-must necessarily be recognized as intricate problems of public
policy. They embrace the distinctive economic circumstances of foreign
areas as well as our own needs and aspirations; they are complicated
by a diversity of national and international goals; they involve much
more than the mere analysis of economic factors in terms of established
economic principles.
And our concern with matters of policy is equally clear in most of
the remaining subjects of discussion. The reexamination of the outlook
for effective competition, after more than a half-century of checkered
governmental effort to this end, not only necessitates a consideration
of the vitality of contemporary competitive rivalry and the feasibility,
under prevailing circumstances of ownership and control, of relying
predominantly upon the free operation of economic forces, but raises
also crucial questions of principle and practice bearing upon the defini-
tion and maintenance of competitive conditions, and brings to issue the
rather perplexing relationship between competitive policy and positive
measures of collective enterprise and public control. These affirmative
policies, furthermore, even when confined to such so-called naturally
monopolistic industries as railroads and public utilities, require constant
and informed appraisal, in the interest of evolving regulatory standards
and expedients which in terms of actual performance are effectively
adjusted to the changing circumstances and conditions of our economic
development. The prevailing status of labor relations has likewise been
molded in large measure by governmental activity. The strengthening
of labor's position, as a result of statutory and administrative imple-
mentation of its right to collective bargaining through freely chosen
representatives, has aroused deep concern in many quarters over the
monopolistic potentialities of vast labor organizations; and the use of
immense economic power by these organizations, through resort to the
strike weapon as the culminating phase of abortive collective bargaining


---Economics-1946-0-06.txt---
procedures, has disclosed serious gaps in public policy and need for
supplementary enactments to facilitate the adjuistment of laboir
disputes. Finally, reliance upon public planning, for the purpose of
stabilizing economic activity, eliminating mass unemployment, further-
ing the full use of productive resources, and increasing the flow of real
income, demands at every turn incisive exploration of both existing and
proposed governmental policies and practices.
In all these spheres, and in many others, there is manifest need for
focusing informed economic opinion upon the policy problems involved;
and in light of the great diversities of view that appear to prevail among
economists, methods and procedures are being developed by the
American Economic Association for cooperative definition of areas of
agreement and disagreement, so that professional knowledge and insight
and understanding may exert their appropriate influence in fashioning
the character of the institutions and arrangements which condition or
govern economic behavior.
II
Nor is this concern with policy problems either a new development
or a mere reflectioln of the special interests of particular program-
builders. The American Economic Association wa.s organized in 1885,
after a modest start had already been made, chiefly by the states, in
the field of public control of economic activity. It was born immediately
before government regulation, apart from tariff policy, first emerged
on a national basis through the adoption of the act to Regulate Com-
merce in 1887 and the Sherman Anti-Trust act in 1890. In these
circumstances, and in view of the generally recognized scope of modern
political economy, it has been within the tradition of the Association
from the beginning to be concerned with the nature and purposes and
effects of government intervention in economic matters, not only with
a view to achieving better understanding of the functioning of the
economic order, but also in'the hope at least, so frequently frustrated
in the classic case of the tariff, that informed opinion might provide
some measure of guidance in the evolution of public policy.
As long as governmental activity confined itself for the most part to
imposing piecemeal restraints and special obligations upon particular
aspects or segments of business enterprise, for the purpose of eliminat-
ing or mitigating specific abuses, policy questions were largely
investigated by small groups of economists, acting within limited
spheres, as mere incidents to the adequate cultivation of their respective
specialties. This approach prevailed even in connection with the
comprehensive affirmative controls over rates, service, finance, and
related matters which were gradually developed in the public service


---Economics-1946-0-07.txt---
industries; and it was also measurably characteristic of the policies
of credit control which resulted from the establishment of the Federal
Reserve System, despite the more direct relationship of such control to
the operation of the economy as a whole. But with the accumulation of
a vast mass of controls in course of the years, however miscellaneous
in character and lacking in co,6rdination, most economists came to be
intimately concerned with a considerable variety of expressions of
public policy; and of more far-reaching importance, with the
assumption during the great depression of positive governmental
responsibilities, of diverse types, for increasing economic activity and
maintaining economic stability, virtually all economic inquiry came to
involve, and to be conditioned by, issues of public policy. This situatioin
has been further sustained by government domination of economic
activity during the war years; and on a more enduring basis, by the
well-nigh universally accepted objective of striving for sharply increased
production and employment and well-being, as compared with the
best of pre-war achievements, for the years that lie ahead. These more
recent phases of economic policy have ushered in important changes in
the kind as well as in the extent of relevant public controls. When
economists were chiefly preoccupied with cost-price factors, operating
in freely competitive markets, as means of achieving automatic guid-
ance oif the utilization of resources and apportionment of income,
economic analysis could concern itself with policy matters only in an
incidental way; for in these circumstances public policy, except in
special situations, was merely directed to maintaining the framework
of private enterprise. But when, with depression and war, resort was
had to many direct controls, of positive bearing upon the development
of production and distribution, policy issues came to pervade the entire
field of economic investigation; and the far-reaching problems involved
are being carried forward into the period of post-war readjustment.
For the past decade and a half economists have struggled intensively
with the inherent complexities and practical difficulties of economic
policy. They have played a necessary and important rlole in government
itself, and they are likely to continue to do so on a substantial scale.
Their influence, in and out of government service, may be fruitfully
exerted for both the relaxation and the extension of controls, depending
upon the specific character of prevailing and projected governmental
measures. It is of the very nature of public policy under democratic
institutions that it is fashioned out of a wide diversity of views, even
among experts; and in these circumstances large areas of disagreement,
involving in major degree conflicts of judgment rather than differences
as to fundamentals, are bound to persist. But most economists, repudiat-
ing with the vast majority of men and women the defeatist notion of the


---Economics-1946-0-08.txt---
futility of human effort, share the common determination, as economists
as well as citizens, so to mold our economic arrangements, through
appropriate combinations of individual initiative and collective control,
as not only to safeguard the meritorious accomplishments of the past,
but to eliminate current maladjustments of major significance and to
move forward to new horizons. Our professional discussions of economic
policy are the counterpart of the widespread concern with policy mat-
ters voiced through innumerable channels in the community at large,
and they tend to reflect the dominant interests of economists in the
contemporary scene.
III
While it is a commonplace that public policy in economic affairs is
the result of the interaction of a great diversity of factors, discussions
of policy problems are all too frequently confined to the narrow limits,
more or less technically defined, of the particular issues immediately
under consideration. Not only are related economic elements of offset-
ting character sometimes ignored, but non-economic considerations are
often deemed to be altogether irrelevant. The age in which we live is
one of specialization; and because of the enormous expansion of the
field of knowledge, specialization naturally prevails in the intellectual
sphere as well as in other aspects of our highly developed social arrange-
ments. Immense good has issued of course from the labors of experts
in restricted segments of the broad realm of science and thought.
Without intensive activity by specialists in narrowly limited spheres of
investigation, the sweep and rapidity of our progress to knowledge and
understanding would be seriously impaired. In our own field, resort to
specialized, detailed, and incisive analyses of economic conditions and
of the interplay of economic forces is clearly indispensable. But con-
trolling reliance upon sharply departmentalized results, both within
and between special fields of inquiry, has its serious drawbacks,
particularly in relation to the development of public policy. For the
latter purpose the most pressing need, aside from the assembly of
adequate data and their subjection to competent analysis, is for in-
telligent and balanced synthesis of the numerous and often conflicting
factors involved. On the economic front, despite the constant pulling
and hauling of special groups for special advantage, the problem of
the effective functioning of the industrial system as a whole, partic-
ularly from the standpoint of the optimum utilization of material and
human resources without serious interruption, has tended to constitute
since the great depression the dominant concern of economic policy;
and this concern, if it is to issue in fruitful social adjustments, calls for
integrated knowledge and integrated thinking.


---Economics-1946-0-09.txt---
Furthermore, when the organization and operation of the social order
are viewed in the large, there is considerable kinship between the
underlying objectives of economists, sociologists, political scientists, and
students of the law. All are devoted to acquiring knowledge and insight
concerning human relationships as they develop within the framework
of organized society, with a view, in part at least, to advancing the
general welfare asi reflected from time to time in the unfolding aspira-
tions of the community. Each group deals with distinctive aspects of
social process, and each relies upon special expedients and techniques;
but the results of their explorations are part of a closely interrelated
whole. When these results are translated into institutional arrange-
ments through policy measures, those charged with responsibility for
the adoption of such measures cannot escape resort to coordination,
and they are as greatly in need of informed guidance in this aspect of
their labors as in having made available to them adequate and soundly
interpreted basic data in each distinctive sphere. This need of skilled
and disinterested coordination is all the more urgent because scientific
methods and scientific results can at best be only crudely approximated
in the field of social relations. Means and ends and the values condi-
tioning them are in process of constant flux; relevant data are always
less than complete or current; human beings display vigorous opposi-
tion to controlled experimentation; the range of predictability is
sharply restricted; the pertinent variables are so extensive as to result
inevitably in wide differences with respect to diagnoses and cures; and
consideration must be accorded to ultrarational or even irrational
factors as well as to those assumed to be grounded in reason. It is in
such circumstances that legal arrangements in the field of economic
policy are evolved.
IV
Public control of economic policy is predominantly crystallized into
law. Aside from the ultimate control assumed to be exercised by the
coinsuming public in a free market economy, there are, of course,
numerous informal public controls, consciously applied for the most
part, unless condemned by law, through the great variety of voluntary
associations into which our society is organized. The development of
a spirit of private restraint and a sense of public responsibility on the
part of major economic interests, whether acting independently or
through such associations, might well serve to minimize the need of
government intervention. But neither reliance upon automatic processes
nor the beneficence of voluntary action has proved to be an adequate
instrument for the elimination of specific economic abuses or the
achievement oif constructive economic purposes. In these circumstances


---Economics-1946-0-10.txt---
there has long been resort to governmental authority, in one sphere or
another, to protect particular interests or advance general well-being.
It is the complex of legal powers being exercised or sought which
brings to issue the outstanding controversies of the day in the field of
public policy. It is our prevailing system of law, the aggregate of gov-
ernmental prohibitions and requirements imposing restrictions upon
private enterprise and fashioning its character and direction, which
raises such fundamental questions as the appropriate scope of the
obligations of government to further economic welfare, the relation
between freedom and authority in the achievement of fruitful economic
results, the outlook for the preservation of democratic institutions in
the milieu of extensive public control of economic activity.
This legal system not only embraces the large accumulation of juridi-
cal principles and practices sanctioned or evolved at common law in the
piecemeal adjudication of disputes concerning the rights and duties of
private litigants, but includes also, more significantly for our present
purposes, the enormous mass of legislative enactments and adminis-
trative determinations-federal, state, and local-which, upon surviv-
ing the possibility of judicial censorship on constitutional grounds,
play an important role in the governance of economic behavior. While
this body of enactments and determinations, as interpreted by the
courts, ha.s modified common-law doctrines in numerous ways, its most
far-reaching contribution lies in positive supplementation of the com-
mon law, through the establishment of standards and the enforcement
of policies designed to safeguard and promote the common good.
However adverse a reaction may be justified to the wisdom or propriety
of particular measures, the basic objectives of the legal system as thus
developed reflect a popular determination to improve economic con-
ditions, within the general framework of private enterprise, and a faith
in the efficacy of collective control.
Law as such evokes no opposition whatever in our midst, even from
those who are most firmly convinced that the contemporary expansion
of the legal system is calculated to destroy or subvert our economic
and political institutions. Indeed, insistence upon the supremacy of
law is voiced most uniformly and most vigorously by those who are
generally inhospitable to restrictive change effected through collective
action. But the law thus approved is primarily that which strengthens
the very industrial setup which is in course of modification-the legal
rules and practices designed to protect property rights, enforce contract
obligations, provide monetary mechanisms, sustain corporate activity,
define bankruptcy procedures, reward creative accomplishment, per-
petuate special privileges. Even. in these spheres, however, which have
constituted the traditional legal foundations of economic conduct, a


---Economics-1946-0-11.txt---
process of continual development, in response to social pressures
resulting from practical maladjustments of all sorts, is both necessary
and unavoidable; and with the intensification of public consciousness
as to desirable ends and appropriate means, more positive objectives
are constantly emerging and being implemented-the powers and op-
portunities which inhere in our political democracy are being utilized
not only to advance special interests, but to further the deliberate
attainment of more general economic well-being.
The labors of economists would proceed on an unrealistic basis, and
would tend to be sterile in many respects, if adequate heed were not
given to the legal environment in which economic enterprise is organized
and economic forces operate; but it is even more important that the
controlling system of law should reflect adequately the economic en-
vironment in which its rules and standards and policies are applicable.
If law is to serve as a living instrument for the guidance of human
relationships in the economic sphere, it must necessarily embrace a
process of reasonable adjustment to social change; and, in point of fact,
the relative stability of our institutions is attributable in large measure
to the actual recognition of this principle of growth in our legal system.
Despite the existence at times of significant conflicts between law and
economics, involving especially undue lags in the development of con-
stitutional doctrine, even the large mass of common-law rules has been
fashioned progressively, though slowly, to accord with the demands of
our dynamic society; and the major measures of economic policy which
find expression in legislation and administration have come to constitute
an integral part of the prevailing body of law. By and large, at least as
of the present, the growth of our legal system is not being artificially or
unduly restricted by the individualistic traditions which surrounded the
early development of modern industrialism.
V
Both prevailing and proposed economic policies must be judged on
their merits, in light of all conditioning circumstances; and on this
basis economists have much to contribute toward the development of
sound and effective policy measures. The immediate sensitiveness of
economic conduct to indirect and remote influences, as well as the
long-run economic consequences of controls, must of necessity receive
informed consideration; and reasoned emphasis upon the broader
implications of economic policy, in their bearing upon our entire
institutional setup, also possesses a large measure of persuasive perti-
nence. In other words, we must not permit ourselves to, drift into an
essentially collectivistic economy. But when opposition to policy
measures is voiced in extreme terms-when virtually all significant


---Economics-1946-0-12.txt---
proposals are attacked as fundamentally subversive of our cherished
heritage the adoption of needed controls is sometimes retarded, and
what is even more important, the controls actually incorporated into
our legal system tend to be largely molded by their militant proponents,
whose advocacy is often equally extreme in the sweeping constructive
expectations which it holds forth. Since the precise character of controls
and the procedural safeguards surrounding them are not infrequently
more important than the mere fact of their establishment, this approach
comes to be a self-defeating one on the part of the regulated interests,
and the community at large tends to be deprived of the balancing
influence of those most immediately concerned and most intimately
acquainted with the complexities involved. It is one of the striking facts
of our economic history that, except in grave emergencies, commercial
and industrial interests have stubbornly opposed practically all restric-
tive or positive control measures of importance, usually on what they
professed to be fundamental legal and economic grounds, however
readily they may subsequently have adjusted themselves to the new
environment created by these measures. Among the more comprehensive
considerations that have thus been invoked in obstructing and impair-
ing the development of economic policy are those reflected in relatively
unrelieved stress upon the maintenance of individual freedom, in
condemnation of government as a virtually unmixed evil, in repudiation
of politics as a necessarily maleficent activity.
There is a substantial parallelism between undue emphasis upon
national sovereignty in international relations and a similar over-
emphasis of individual freedom in domestic relations. Both are
expressions of a basic isolationism in face of closely knit and
interdependent conditions of social living. There can be no question
that freedom from restraint, whether it be the external restraint of alien
states or the internal restraint of domestic governmental authority, is
among the most fundamental of our values and is largely responsible
for our fruitful accomplishments. But untrammeled freedom of action
has never prevailed in either sphere. It has always been recognized
that both national and individual liberty, if allowed uninhibited sway,
are themselves likely to generate serious restraints, and that deliberate
restrictions may be necessary to achieve the largest measure of attain-
able freedom. National sovereignty has not precluded ready acceptance
of the numerous self-imposed limitations contained in compacts or
treaties negotiated between states, nor has the individualism of our
system of private enterprise precluded the collective establishment of
numerous controls. When achieved through democratic processes, in
response to demonstrated general need, these measures of economic
control tend to implement and enrich individual freedom, just as


---Economics-1946-0-13.txt---
mutually advantageous international agreements constitute concrete
expressions of sovereignty rather than its denial.
We are now in the midst of a determined quest for durable peace
among nations and for economic security at home, and in connection
with this far-reaching effort the institutional implications of collective
control have come to sharp focus. But there appears to be no justifiable
basis for assuming that even these objectives are necessarily in conflict
with the maintenance of national sovereignty or individual freedom. The
goals are more positive and comprehensive than any previously sought
on so broad a foundation of popular support or with like insistence,
but they are being pursued for the most part within the established
structure of political nationalism and economic individualism. Effective
removal of the menace of war is essential to the constructive fruition
of national purposes; adequate concern with continuing maintenance
of a high level of production and employment is an indispensable
condition of economic welfare. Collective effort toward these major
ends, as generally envisaged, is but calculated to create a favoring
environment for national and individual self-realization. Fortunately
the obstacles to international cooperation springing from legalistic
conceptions of sovereignty are rapidly dissolving. In the domestic field
we are much more hesitant-for fear, basically, of undue encroach-
ment upon individual freedom. There are, without doubt, many pitfalls
and immense difficulties in interrelating soundly and fruitfully the great
variety of elements, public and private, relevant to the achievement of
economic stability at a prosperity level; and there is much room for
controversy with respect to numerous technical questions clustering
about wage adjustments, price policies, investment functions, monetary
management, fiscal practices, and a host of other complex factors. But
sweeping repudiation of public responsibility for economic stabilization
is largely a make-believe procedure; and the ready identification of all
public policies that may in some fashion be characterized as economic
planning with the exercise of dictatorial power and the use of arbitrary
methods-as inevitably involving authoritative allocation of resources
and imposition of direct controls over all significant aspects of the
economy-simply does not square with the character of prevailing
non-emergency controls, or of the relatively modest proposals being
sponsored, or likely to be sponsored, by any substantial and responsible
segment of our polity. Such an approach leads to reliance, not upon
documented economic dangers, but upon such emotion-laden and
question-begging shibboleths as "regimentation" and "centralization,"
broadcast with little reference to the inescapable dependence of the
individual upon social process, the essentially national scope of the
established economic system, the reasonably reassuring actualities in


---Economics-1946-0-14.txt---
these respects of the general course of control experience. It is neither
desirable nor feasible, in the complexities of modern industrial society,
to restrict governmental functions to a closed category fashioned by
the near-absolutes of a dead past.
Nor does greater validity attach to such strictures upion the develop-
ment of public control as derive their primary impulse from want of
confidence in government and politics. Governments can be and have
been arbitrary, discriminatory, and tyrannical; and it is a sound
instinct that seeks to restrict government intervention in econonmic
affairs to the compelling requirements of public interest, centered upon
the gradual but progressive improvement of the lot of the individual.
But in a democratic society such collective requirements cannot be
indefinitely ignored; and only government provides a sufficiently all-
inclusive instrument to encompass and represent the entire community
in the totality of its economic relations. In time of war we dedicate our
lives and all our resources to a vital common end, and we rely upon
government unstintingly to effectuate this end. Common ends of great
significance also emerge in times of peace, and in the economic sphere
control policies, molded by the spiecific exigencies of recurring need,
constitute practical expressions of such collective purposes. Whether
in peace or war, particular measures may be ill-adapted to the ends held
in view, and may indeed prove positively harmful. Furthermore, the
exercise of governmental authority may be impaired or vitiated by
corrupt practices and inefficient methods. But such defects of govern-
ment, occasionally resulting in situations sufficiently extreme to be
termed scandalous, have their counterparts in the administration of
private business enterprise; and in any event, the remedy lies in the
improvement of government in all its various branches-a widely
recognized need which becomes increasingly urgent as the scope of
public control is expanded-rather than in the artificial restriction of
governmental functions.
And like observations appear to be justified with respect to reliance
upon the shortcomings of politics as a ground for resisting necessary
controls. The unlovely aspects of politics are common knowledge and
need not be detailed here. Improvement in political methods is as
essential as improvement in government as a whole. But in considerable
measure politics is government in action; and politics can no more be
wished out of existence, or be regarded as an inherent obstacle to the
adoption of needed control measures, than government itself. Moreover,
the significant constructive services rendered by politics in the sphere
of policy-making are generally overlooked. The often alarming activities
of pressure groups tend in many instances to offset one another; and it
is political rivalry, animated in some degree by divergent faiths and at


---Economics-1946-0-15.txt---
all events by distinctive strategies, that is largely responsible for
keeping selfish interests in most cases within relatively reasonable
bounds. There are, of course, fundamental issues of principle that call
for uncompromising statesmanship, impervious to the temptations of
political maneuvering. The maintenance of government as the servant
of the people, through vigilant avoidance of policies calculated to
transform the state into their master, constitutes the most outstanding
of these issues and comprehends numerous matters of principle where
political concessions are dangerous. Happily we have resisted the lure
of totalitarianism even under the terrific pressures of the great economic
breakdown and the unprecedented upheaval of world war; and with
the complete military defeat of the fascist powers the climate of opinion
is more inhospitable than ever to the enthronement of dictatorial
authority. In most economic matters, however, there is ample room for
accommodation of conflicting interests and conflicting viewpoints; and
the pragmatic compromises of politics produce such accommodation.
Politics thus serves as a cementing rather than divisive influence in our
national life. Head-on collisions between powerful interests and extreme
ideologies are thereby averted, and opportunity is afforded for resort
to limited and tentative expedients, often instituted on an experimental
basis, which are subject to progressive modification as practical
circumstances may require. The trial-and-error methods by which the
Interstate Commerce act and the interpretation and application of its
provisions have been evolved over a, period of almost six decades furnish
a striking illustration of this pragmatic approach; and similar methods
have characterized for the most part the development of control policies
in all spheres of economic activity. Needed change may be somewhat
retarded in this way, but it tends to assume the form of much more
orderly and realistic adjustments than if pursued as a quest for
uncompromising ends, to be effectuated in full-blown maturity by single
impulse. In this fashion the very political activity which is so often
feared and so generally condemned has contributed significantly,
despite the accumulation of controls, to the preservation of the essential
attributes of the system of private capitalism.
VI
But perhaps the most common alarm over the influence being
exerted upon the system of private enterprise by the development of
public control finds expression in the contention that we are relinquish-
ing our liberties to an all-pervading "bureaucracy." This characteriza-
tion of governmental policies as bureaucracy is obviously a mere use
of epithet, designed to cast discredit upon existing and proposed control
measures, rather than an objective description of regulatory procedures.


---Economics-1946-0-16.txt---
Indeed, one is seldom given any inkling as to what constitutes the essence
of bureaucracy, or where the line may be drawn between legitimate and
bureaucratic governmental activity. For the most part the charge of
bureaucracy but epitomizes over-all recalcitrance to control, lumping
in a single blast of condemnation the great variety of considerations,
largely substantive in character, which usually impel attacks upon
government intervention in the economic sphere. Much of the distrust
is based, of course, upon justifiable complaint against inefficient
administration resulting from poor choice of personnel and lack of
discipline, against slowness of action arising from cumbersome and
hierarchical assignments of responsibility, against self-perpetuating and
self-aggrandizing activities of public appointees. As already noted,
removal or mitigation of such governmental and political defects is, and
should be, a matter of deep concern. But aside from these general
strictures upon government and politics, and to the extent that regula-
tory processes rather than the policies to be enforced are at issue, it
must be assumed that the critical emphasis upon bureaucracy springs
from the fact that our prevailing governmental establishment operates
predominantly in economic matters through boards, bureaus, and
commissions. From this standpoint it is the administrative method of
control, as reflected in the nature of the majo;r regulatory agencies,
which is assumed to threaten our liberties.
Administrative tribunals have come into being and have expanded
with the years because they provide "working implements of govern-
ment," to use a phrase of Chief Justice Stone, which are indispensable
to the successful attainment of regulatory ends. Exclusive reliance upon
the courts would but give effect to customary common-law rules,
constituting a virtual abdication of positive policy making in face of
urgent need of control in many directions; and even within these narrow
limits such judicial activity would result in the mere provision of private
redress for past infringements upon prevailing obligations, rather than
in the affirmative establishment of such relationships as are deemed to
be required in the public interest. In these circumstances resort to
statutory enactments has been a necessary and natural expression of
democratic objectives in the complexities of the modern world. But
direct legislative regulation, enforceable in the courts, while entirely
appropriate where concretely definable prohibitions are involved, is
likewise beset with vitiating difficulties in most instances. Legislatures,
do not possess the necessary competence to deal in detail with the
numerous and intricate economic matters over which they may exercise
jurisdiction. Many practices subject to control-such as unfair methods
of competition and unreasonable or unjustly discriminatoiry rates and
charges-are not adequately definable, even as prohibitions, without


---Economics-1946-0-17.txt---
reference to the facts of individual situations. When remedial ends are
being sought, as in most aspects of contemporary control, legislative
policies must be adapted to a tremendous diversity of circumstances
and conditions. And direct legislative controls, however soundly
formulated in the first instance, would tend to issue in harmfully rigid
adjustments. It is because of such factors that the administrative
tribunal has come to be utilized as the dominant instrument of regula-
tion. Basic policies and guiding standards are prescribed by the
legislature; but the task of translating these policies and standards into
specific regulatory requirements is entrusted to administrative com-
missions, fuctioning continuously and aided by technical staffs, which
promulgate their orders, after notice and hearing, on the basis of factual
records as developed in each proceeding, and whose determinations
are subject to judicial review. While there are minor variations from
these primary characteristics among the many permanent regulatory
bodies now operative, and while the pressures of emergency situations
have temporarily induced procedural short-cuts as well as extraordinary
extensions of public authority, this type of agency constitutes the
established norm for the control of economic conduct.
It is important to remember that this method of administrative
regulation represents no new device fashioned during the recent period
of intense control activity. State commissions with mandatory power
over railroads were first established in the 1870's; and in the federal
sphere the Interstate Commerce Commission, the most powerful of all
our peacetime administrative agencies exercising direct economic
control, dates back to 1887. The creation of this commission constituted
a deliberate Congressional choice over the alternative method of
legislative regulation, and the long intervening experience has but served
to confirm the wisdom of the choice. While numerous controversies have
developed in the course of the Commission's existence concerning the
nature and scope of the substantive policies to be established for its
guidance, there has been no disagreement as to the indispensability of
the administrative method for effectuating these policies, and there
has been no weakening of this conviction as the Commission's powers
have actually been expanded in notable degree. By the time of the
outbreak of the First World War, virtually all the states had constituted
administrative agencies, modeled upon the Interstate Commerce
Commission, fo-r the regulation of public utilities, and the Federal Trade
Commission had been established to regulate competitive practices and
implement our antitrust policy in the general field of commerce and
industry. By that time, furthermore, a full generation ago, the develop-
ing system of administrative law had been absorbed without serious
difficulty into our over-all legal framework. This was accomplished by a


---Economics-1946-0-18.txt---
Supreme Court, under the leadership of Chief Justice White, which in the
contemporary disposition to affix labels would generally be deemed to
have been conservative. Not only were attacks upon the regulatory
commissions on the ground of unconstitutional delegation of legislative
authority succesisfully repelled, but by the adoption in self-denial of a
narrow judicial review, the courts gave full effect to the large grants of
administrative discretion vested in these agencies. It was recognized
that the ever-present conflict between rule and discretion, arising from
the need under varying circumstances of according consideration to the
often divergent demands of certainty and of justice, is characteristic
of judicial as well as administrative determinations; and in view of
the essential regulatory purposes being served and the manifest legis-
lative intent that dominant responsibility for effectuating them be
vested in these specialized agencies, no inherent derogation from the
supremacy of law was found to be involved in the functioning of the
administrative tribunals. It was this established legal doctrine that
determined the status and potentialities of most of the subsequently
created regulatory commissions.
The attacks upon so-called "bureaucracy" as a process of control
spring chiefly from fear of the exercise of arbitrary power. When
adequate safeguards are provided against unjustifiable or capricious
action, it is the control policies themselves rather than the methods of
their execution that are really brought into question; and in our system
of administrative regulation such safeguards are in fact provided in a
good many ways by the legislatures, the agencies themselves, and the
courts. The regulatory commissions are created by the legislatures, and
their very existence, no less than the sufficiency of their resources, is
constantly subject to the legislative will. The fields of their operation
and the scope of their power, including applicable policies and
standards, are expressly prescribed. Responsibility for proper per-
formance of their regulatory functions runs directly to the legislatures,
with provision for periodic public accountability to them. The entire
structure of control in each sphere is thus subject to continual
modification on the basis of experience. In the exercise of their
authority, furthermore, the regulatory agencies are generally required
to provide due notice to all interests involved and to afford them full
and fair hearings. These agencies are frequently referred to as quasi-
judicial tribunals, because, as an incident to the performance of their
primary function of prescribing arrangements for the future, they
necessarily pass upon the propriety of existing adjustments. Much
more important is the fact that they usually follow quasi-judicial
procedures. These procedures arouse dissatisfaction on the part of those
who impatiently seek quick results through summary action, but they


---Economics-1946-0-19.txt---
provide necessary assurance that all relevant private rights and
interests will be accorded due consideration in the fashioning of
determinations deemed to further the public good. The validity of these
administrative determinations, finally, is subject to review by the courts.
While judicial review generally confines itself to mere questions of
power, and does not seek to substitute the judgment of the courts for
that of the regulatory bodies, it provides effective safeguards against
unconstitutional assertions of power, both in the governing legislative
policies and in the resulting administrative orders, against exercise of
administrative authority not supported by valid interpretation of the
pertinent statutory enactments, and against abuse of administrative
discretion effected through any failure to adhere to due process, broadly
conceived, as evolved in the established traditions of the law. The
regulatory agencies are thus kept within the bounds of legitimate
authority deliberately vested in them. Arbitrary power and arbitrary
action are both alien to the prevailing peacetime system of administra-
tive regulation.
Under such a system, however, it is a matter of crucial importance
that the independence of the regulatory agencies be meticulously
maintained. Only in this way can the characteristic advantages of the
administrative method be realized. It is especially necessary that these
tribunals be not dominated by political pressures. Political influences
have their proper place in the development of guiding policies through
legislative action; but in the execution of these policies as established
by law, the responsible administrative bodies must be free to, reach
determinations based entirely upon their own informed judgment. Such
freedom from external influence or control is as essential in this sphere
as in case of the determinations of the courts. It conditions the attain-
ment of just results in particular proceedings and the preservation of
needed confidence in the regulatory process as a whole. The established
setup is in point of fact one of independent commissions; and when
political interference makes itself felt, as it does in a variety of ways
from time to time, it at least tends to evoke adverse popular reactions,
because of manifest departure from the generally accepted norm of
administrative independence. The plausible proposals that are put for-
ward recurrently for the absorption of the regulatory agencies by the
regular departments of government constitute a much more serious
threat. It would be difficult, in such a setup, to divorce specific
administrative determinations, no less than general matters of guiding
policy, from the political objectives of the party in power; and in these
circumstances the orderly safeguards against arbitrary or capricious
action which have been laboriously developed over the years would
tend, as a practical matter, to be seriously impaired. A like danger


---Economics-1946-0-20.txt---
appears to lurk in proposals for instituting special-interest representa-
tion on the regulatory agencies themselves, as in case of the tri-partite
board for handling labor disputes and wage stabilization during the war
period. However helpful this form of organization may have proved to
be in facilitating the disposition of industrial conflicts in the special
emergency situations with which we were then faced, it did not
contribute to the maintenance of orderly processes or the development
of enduring principles. All interests involved in regulatory proceedings
should, as a matter of course, be accorded full opportunity to present
evidence and argument bearing upon every aspect of the problems at
issue; but since the very fact of government intervention springs from
the recognition of a general interest that transcends the special interests
of the parties, the process of decision should be entrusted exclusively to
public representatives. In other words, internal as well as external
pressures may constitute an impediment to the maintenance of genuine
administrative independence.
But in the last analysis the most far-reaching safeguards against
possible excesses of public control, whether they be substantive or
procedural in character, lie in 'the preservation of the democratic
environment of governmental action. Important control policies usually
draw their initial impetus from expressions of popular dissatisfaction
with existing conditions. At least in general terms proposed measures
tend to be discussed in political campaigns and to bear upon the
fortunes of political parties and candidates. In due course they are
investigated by legislative committees and debated in the law-making
chambers. After control measures are adopted they are likely to be
tested in the courts as to 'their constitutional validity and legal scope.
They are then executed and enforced by the regulatory agencies,
generally under quasi-judicial procedures, and the findings and
conclusions of the investigations are public records. Individual
determinations and directives are subject to judicial review, for abuse
of administrative discretion, and the entire regulatory performance is
subject to virtually unrestricted legislative inquiry. When patent im-
proprieties or unacceptable results emerge, the law-making bodies have
constantly recurring opportunity to reverse or modify or expand prevail-
ing policies and practices; and the whole deliberative cycle may again be
brought into play. After due allowance is made for the large measure of
unreality that often characterizes public discussions of public issues,
as well as for the obstacles to relinquishment of established control
arrangements that derive from vested governmental interests, serious
errors of economic policy cannot in the long run withstand the pressure
of these democratic processes. As long as we exercise the necessary
vigilance to preserve without impairment our political liberties, includ-


---Economics-1946-0-21.txt---
ing free and frequent elections, and our civil liberties of freedom of
thought, of speech, and of the press, there is little likelihood that the
course of government intervention will be permitted to subvert our
essentially individualistic economic order.
The chief purpose of these observations has been to direct attention
to some of the factors that obstruct the approach to policy problems.
The ends sought are of vital significance, and the tasks actually to be
performed are many and difficult. Despite the movement for public
control, long in the making and far advanced in many directions-
perhaps because of it-our economy remains the outstanding expression
of private enterprise in the world of today. There is a deep-rooted faith
in the system and a widespread determination that it be preserved. It is
doubtful whether prophecies of doom are any better founded for the
future than they have been in the past. There appears to be good
promise that freedom and authority can be so harmonized as to promote
economic well-being without sacrifice of essential values.


---Economics-1947-0-01.txt---
According to Victorian reckoning, this is the Diamond Jubilee of the
American Economic Association. In the charter of incorporation of this
Association its purposes are stated as follows: "(1) The encouragement
of economic research . . . (2) The issue of publications on economic sub-
jects, and (3) The encouragement of perfect freedom of economic discus-
sion. The Association as suck [italics supplied] will take no partisan
attitude, nor will it commit its members to anv position on practical
economic questions."
Admirable purposes and principles. In pursuing them the Association,
over the sixty years of its life, has rendered invaluable service to the
profession. It has offered an opportunity for economists to present their
ideas to colleagues and to have these ideas discussed at the meetings.
It has enabled members through the Proceedings and the Review, to
keep in touch with the work and thinking of fellow-members. It has
also-and this perhaps has been its greatest service-offered an oppor-
tunity for many members to get together once a year and to become
acquainted with each other. It has created a degree of esprit de corps
among economists.
But it has remained aloof from practical affairs. It has been academic,
though in the fine, not the derogatory, sense of the word. In the mean-
time profound changes have occurred in the life of the country. Not only
has the elimination of time and space from travel and communications
made all decisions necessarily more urgent and decisive, but the growth of
economic units and the concentration of economic power have imparted
to a vastly larger proportion of public and private actions a nation-
wide, nay, a world-wide significance. The United States can no longer
remain complacently aloof behind the oceans, nor the economist behind
the book stacks. An economist"s study can no longer be his world; the
entire world must be his study.
To an ever-growing extent public authorities and national and inter-
national business enterprises turn to economists for advice and guid-


---Economics-1947-0-02.txt---
ance; and economists in increasing numbers seek partial or total em-
ployment outside of academic halls. There are many economists who,
like other thinkers, remain aloof and follow their own thoughts in an
arduous effort to discover the eternal verities. The world needs these
men and the profession is proud of them, for every important practical
forward step in the progress of humanity has had its origin in the ab-
stract, supposedly impractical thinking and dreaming of the scholar; the
physicist, biologist, philosopher, and student of social problems.
The closet thinker may be compared to the scientist who invents and
perfects means of achieving military and industrial objectives; other
economists may be likened to the military or industrial army who must
utilize the results of the thinking of the scientist in helping to solve the
problems of the day. Both phases of the economists' work are necessary
to society; the profession has a responsibility for developing both kinds
of economists-the thinker and the doer. But while it may be feasible
for the thinker not to be a doer, it would be fatal for the doer to refrain
from thinking.
It should be recognized that for many, if not for most, economists
the quiet and peace of the ivory tower has been lost; the confusion and
struggle of the market place is upon them. Many have gone to work
there, and have rendered yeoman service to the economy and the state.
But they have done so as individuals, for they have had little, if any,
organized support from their colleagues in the Association, little facil-
ity for sounding the trends of thought among their fellow workers.
Some method should be devised by which the public, and more particu-
larly members of the Association, could find out how the economists
of the country stood on important issues. One way to promote this would
be to create a small committee on Public Issues. Such a committee could
select issues on which the views of members would be sought. It could
take responsibility for wording the questions, calling for assistance on
persons best qualified to give it. The entire Association, or the portion
of it which might be expected to know most about the subject, would
then be circularized. After the replies had been received, the Secretary
of the Association would issue a statement to the effect that the 4000
members of the American Economic Association have been asked a cer-
tain question; of this number-so many replied; of the replies-so many
took one view, and so many another. This could be refined by classifying
the replies geographically, by field of interest, and in other ways. Such
a statement would not commit the Association as such to any viewpoint,
and therefore would not violate the letter or the spirit of its charter. But
it would enable the public to know currently how the profession stood
on an issue and would give economists themselves a way of knowing
better what other members of their craft were thinking.


---Economics-1947-0-03.txt---
An incidental, but not unimportant, advantage of such a procedure
would be that it would counteract the effect of pronouncements on con-
troversial questions appearing from time to time, attributed to a stated
number of economists. For many reasons such statements are not the
best way for economists to voice their views. There is no way of judging
whether those who are quoted represent a prevailing or a minority
opinion. The questions on which the views are expressed are not selected
by a representative group-but are usually propounded by an energetic
individual who wants to gather support for his position. Not infre-
quently the issues presented are minor from the viewpoint of the public
interest. Also, because of their unidentified origin and the unsystematic
selection of signers (at least as far as the public knows), such pronounce-
ments are likely to be taken as propaganda efforts by an interested
group. Finally, in practice the questions are often ambiguously worded
and do not offer a good opportunity of indicating clear-cut views on well-
defined issues. Experience shows that occasional pronouncements of this
sort, well intentioned and public spirited as their objectives may be,
have done nothing in most cases to enhance the prestige of the profes-
sion-but, on the contrary, have tended to bring it under suspicion of
being either unrealistic or influenced by some pressure group.
From the point of view of the Association, this is important because
statements by a substantial number of its members are likely to be in-
terpreted by some as expressing the views of the profession as a whole,
or of the Association itself. This is prejudicial to its interests and to those
of the vast majority of its less vocal members. Clearly the Association
would not wish and is not in a position to do anything to interfere with
the freedom of its members to express themselves publicly in any way
they choose. That is their privilege, and one consistent with the texture
of democratic ideas. But while nothing can be done to prevent such
statements or to discourage them, the establishment of official polls
would go a long way toward counteracting their harmful effect on the
standing of the profession.
There are many issues on which there is practical unanimity among
economists, while public opinion is widely divided. There are others, it
is rumored, on which agreement has not been reached even among mem-
bers of the profession. Clarification of the issues and focusing attention
of the members on them would result in making many members feel a
greater sense of their urgency and to induce them to review and organize
their thinking in relation to the realities of the day in fields not confined
to their immediate specialty.
At no time has it been more important for economists to have the
respect and confidence of the public, or more necessary for the country
to make the best possible use of the specialized training, knowledge, and


---Economics-1947-0-04.txt---
vision of economists. For society today is confronted with a vital issue.
What must be decided in the immediate future is whether an answer to
pressing economic problems can be found within the framework of capi-
talism and free enterprise or whether economic organization must move
in the direction of socialism or communism, or whether a combination
of the two systems offers the best solution. These alternatives involve
political, moral and spiritual dilemmas, but the fundamental question
is economic: shall enterprise continue largely under private ownership,
or shall it be increasingly or wholly turned over to the state? From the
socialist or communist point of view, the important questions appear to
have been solved-many decades ago, while for protagonists of private
enterprise answers to the questions are still to be developed. Communism
places a period after its dogmas, in fact, an exclamation point, while a
question mark is still discernible at the end of deliberations on economic
dilemmas by proponents of individual enterprise. This appears to give
the communist approach the advantage of certainty, and leaves capital-
ism under the apparent handicap of indecision. But in the long term,
free enterprise may gain the more important advantage of greater flexi-
bility, which makes it more adaptable to changing economic forces. Its
opportunities are many, the challenge of events is vibrant, and all in-
tellectual resources must be directed toward meeting it.
In this critical hour the economist and his Association have a great
opportunity and a corresponding responsibility. On the discharge of this
responsibility depends not merely the standing and future of the pro-
fession-but a vastly more important issue as well-the form of future
economic life. For if economists cannot devise a way of making a system
of free enterprise produce results satisfactory to the mass of the people,
it is certain that the trend will be away from free enterprise and toward
some form of socialist state; and while experience has not shown con-
clusively that a socialist state can tolerate spiritual freedom-which
democracies value above all, neither has it been demonstrated that so-
cialism must necessarily be totalitarian and is irreconcilable with free-
dom.
In the critical period ahead, when these questions must be answered
by events, economists and their Association are under obligation more
than ever to help in the development of correct solutions to pressing
problems that confront the economy. On the development of such solu-
tions and their incorporation into national and international economic
policy of this country depends the progress of world reconstruction. For
without the maintenance of economic strength in the United States and
its use for rehabilitating the world, there is little hope for the future of
western civilization.
The suggested method of testing the views of economists might be


---Economics-1947-0-05.txt---
one helpful step. Other ways of strengthening the profession's grip on
reality need to be developed. Most of the members of this Association
are not only economic thinkers but teachers as well. Promotion of better
understanding of economic problems by future men of affairs and states-
men is not the least of the economists' obligations. But the economics
they teach must reflect understanding of the forces that shape the chang-
ing economic world.
Economists, therefore, are under double obligation-for themselves
and for their disciples-to perfect their implements and processes of
thinking. They must beware of dogmas; avoid blind faith in free enter-
prise, in the all-curing beneficence of the entrepreneur's profit dollar
without reference to the source whence it is drawn or the use to which it
is put; as well as refrain from sole reliance on the hydraulic strength of
the income stream, or the salutory nature of the dollar spent by the con-
sumer, regardless of who he may be or the rationality or wastefulness of
his expenditure. They must subject to searching analysis the effects of
outlays by the state, the investor, the producer, and the consumer. They
must be conscious of the importance of all four phases of national in-
come: its source, its magnitude, its distribution, and its use. Likewise
they must not fall into the error of depending on the quantity of money
alone as an adequate regulator of economic developments, or adopt the
reverse doctrine that the amount of money is an unimportant and irrele-
vant condition with little or no bearing on prices or the course of events.
No set of statistical series, to say nothing of any single series, is a
sufficient basis for determining causal relationships on which economic
policy can be predicated with safety. They are only indications of where
one should look for the causes and interrelationships that determine eco-
nomic events. When it is said that statistics are the economist's con-
science, what is meant is that they indicate the limits of the territory
in which the economist may tread with assurance on the hard surface
of fact. They do not restrict his freedom of exploration in the less easily
traveled lanes of intelligent surmise and imaginative understanding. A
good economist need not be a seer but he must not wear blinders; and
he must have the seeing eye.
In order to perform their function adequately, economists must ad-
here rigidly to the discipline of thorough analysis of conditions as they
are and not permit themselves to be blinded by preconceived theories or
by transitory considerations of expediency. Lasting economic health
would not be achieved by sole dependence on the encouragement or
limitation of savings or on the promotion of adequate investment or
consumption; or on the expansion and contraction of the supply of
money. Great leaders who, under the stress of current conditions, have
evolved systems of economic concepts modify, expand, or alter these


---Economics-1947-0-06.txt---
concepts under different circumstances and as their own thinking pro-
gresses. Followers must be on the alert not to become more royalist than
the King.
If economics is the study of man in the process of producing and con-
suming what he needs and what he wants, then it is apparent that the
subject matter of his inquiry is constantly shifting. Not so many years
ago no one needed or wanted gasoline because the motor car had not been
invented, and no one wanted moving pictures or radios because they
had not yet been imagined. A horse-and-buggy economist in a motor
age is of no greater use than an isolationist in the atomic era. An econo-
mist, in order to merit this designation, must keep his mind open to the
realities of the ever changing pattern of economic life. When his thinking
becomes rigidly confined by a set of unchanging dogmas, his usefulness
rapidly declines while the amount of mischief he may do becomes for-
midable.
The success of the economists' efforts, however, even if they do their
best, will depend on the behavior of the different economic groups which
make up society and on effective organization of the state. But, while
progress in the rationality of the behavior of economic units is neces-
sarily a slow process to which understanding of economic forces can
contribute a great deal but only gradually in the course of time, better
adaptation of the machinery of government to the tasks it must perform
in modern society is an essential preliminary step long overdue in the
upward climb toward a smoothly functioning economy.
For progess on this road better organization of the government, more
direct and effective ways of translating programs into action must be
devised and instituted. Democracy, it has been said, is the rule of medi-
ocrity. There is an element of truth in the allegation. For mediocrity
represents the average, and a rule of the majority cannot be too far re-
moved from the understanding of the average. While leadership in a
democracy must remain in touch with the average, it should strive to
be ahead. It should lead-not follow. Leadership that is below the aver-
age is disastrous; leadership that is on the level of the average holds
little promise of advancement. Leadership that is ahead of the average
results in progress. It may make all the difference between a rise and a
decline in the tide of a nation's life.
Consequently, government must be so organized as to encourage bet-
ter than average leadership and assure it of the country's support. This
is the opposite of what actually prevails. It is regrettably true that exist-
ing governmental organization is such as to make it well nigh impossible
even for brilliant leadership to achieve progress, except at times of crisis
and then only at great hazard and with much delay.
We have a Congress which has great powers and is controlled by one


---Economics-1947-0-07.txt---
of the two leading political parties. The position of Congressmen on
vital issues, however, is not determined by their party allegiance. The
economic views of progressive Democrats, for example, are much farther
removed from those of conservative Democrats than those of individual
progressives or conservatives of either party are from each other. This
is so well known that it is almost a platitude. And yet, at the risk of
platitudinousness, it needs to be restated because of less obvious im-
plications. For this means that in choosing a member of Congress the
voter has no assurance that the party designation of his candidate in-
sures his taking certain positions, even on vital issues. Unless the voter
knows the views of a candidate on a variety of problems, he votes in the
dark. Some system under which the platform on which a party is elected
to office will indicate the line of policy that its individual members are
pledged to carry out is an essential part of a rational and effective de-
mocracy. We have no such system. It is imperative that one be estab-
lished. With such a system in effect, pressure groups representing special
interests would have considerably less opportunity to influence legisla-
tive action.
In the course of time terms of office of Congressmen should be so
modified as to make impossible the frustration and stalling of govern-
ment that occurs when the majority of Congress belongs to a different
party from that of the executive. This, however, would require an
amendment to the constitution and would be a slow process. The ur-
gency of such an improvement in legislative machinery is obscured by
the lack of likemindedness within the parties. It is significant and hope-
ful, on the other hand, that many of the other changes most urgently
required for rationalizing government can be accomplished not only
within the existing terms of the constitution but for the most part even
without legislation-by the adoption of effective practices and the es-
tablishment of a tradition of responsibility in government.
Recent improvements in the internal organization of Congress under
the La Follette bill are important steps in the right direction and hold a
promise of better functioning of the legislature. But in order to serve
the purposes of democracy adequate means must be devised to make
Congress a more effective instrument for carrying out the will of the
electorate. A machinery of government under which the President and
members of Congress, who were elected at the same time on the same
platform and have the same party allegiance and the same mandate
from the people, cannot cooperate on major issues is one that frustrates
the democratic process.
Coordinate with Congress stands the executive, with powers derived
in part from Congress and in part directly from the constitution. To
function effectively it must have organized machinery for co6peration


---Economics-1947-0-08.txt---
with Congress. Experience has demonstrated that voluntary, irregular
contacts are not enough. A regular statutory line of authority between
the executive and the legislative arms of the government is needed.
The executive itself should be so organized as to be in a position to
initiate programs expressive of broad national policy, and when ap-
proved by Congress, to carry them out as a co6rdinated undertaking-
through the different parts into which the executive branch of the gov-
ernment is subdivided. As the government is constituted, there was
until recently no agency for formulating national policies, no provision
for regular consultation with the legislative power, and no machinery
for co6rdinating the activities of the ten regular departments and the
numerous independent agencies, boards and commissions. The only
place where the power of coordination is lodged under the existing sys-
tem is the White House. And as a consequence, too much responsibility,
too much detailed work, and too much omniscience is expected of one
man-the President, who, in order to discharge the superhuman duties
piled upon him, needs to be a paragon of physical endurance, of wisdom,
energy, tact, and showmanship, as well as of political strategy. The re-
sult is that Presidents are killed by overwork and yet can rarely achieve
a complete and continuous program of national policy.
For the President does not have the support of a Cabinet with joint
responsibility for national policy. Such a Cabinet does not exist in this
country. There is only a group of men, charged with specific duties in
separate fields, with the President alone as a unifying and reconciling
factor. The extent to which problems of national policy are discussed at
Cabinet meetings is not generally known. But that there is no recogni-
tion of joint responsibility for adopting policy is clear. It is also apparent
that there are jealousies and a constant jockeying for power. Further-
more, many of the most important functions of the Executive are en-
trusted to agencies not represented at the Cabinet table at all-and
subject to no control except by remote direction of Congress and infre-
quent contacts with the over-worked and necessarily inaccessible Chief
Executive. The course of government may be pictured as an obstacle
race-beset by many hurdles and run simultaneously on many courses,
with but one judge who is under pressure to look in all directions at once
and to make prompt decisions of vital importance, without opportunity
in many instances to consider comprehensively all the elements in-
volved. This system is a heritage of a past era, when the duties of fed-
eral government were infinitely simpler. It needs to be remodeled in
order to be equipped to handle effectively the numerous pressing prob-
lems of a modern state. It has been well said that every human institu-
tion must change if it is to last. It would be tragic if at this critical time
the country's efforts to achieve domestic and world reconstruction were
frustrated by worship at the shrine of vested error.


---Economics-1947-0-09.txt---
This country abandoned traditional laissez-faire largely because re-
current booms and depressions had demonstrated the inefficiency of
unregulated private enterprise, its inability to cope with the problems
of a complex society. If government in turn shows itself incapable of
dealing effectively with these problems, then in what direction will the
country move? Will it be toward communism, fascism or anarchy? There
is little solace for America in any of these alternatives. Preservation of
democracy is the country's wish, but if democracy is to be preserved, it
must function efficiently. Its ideals must be implemented and made
secure by governmental machinery capable of carrying out the people's
will effectively and without undue delay.
The need for better organization of policy formation has been recog-
nized for a long time and its urgency has become more apparent during
the great depression of the thirties and during and after the Second
World War. Its acuteness has not abated but increased during the pres-
ent period of reconstruction.
One important move toward better coordination of government ac-
tivities was taken when the Act putting into effect the Bretton Woods
Agreements provided for a National Advisory Council on International
Monetary and Financial Problems to consist of the Secretaries of the
Treasury, State, and Commerce, the Chairman of the Federal Reserve
Board, and the Chairman of the Export-Import Bank. This Council has
the function of considering with the American representatives on the
International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development the general policies to be pursued by the
United States in the field of international finance, and particularly mat-
ters in which decisions of these two institutions are subject to approval
by the United States. The Council is directed to coordinate, so far as
practicable, the policies and operations of the representatives of the
United States on the Fund, the Bank, the Export-Import Bank, and all
other agencies of the government engaging in foreign financial trans-
actions. It is required to make periodic reports to the President and to
the Congress. Since its organization the Council has been extremely ac-
tive and has represented the United States in negotiations in connection
with the British credit and the loans to France. Formal organization of
interdepartmental cooperation in international finance through this
Council is a constructive development of a high order of importance
and promise.
A potentially more important step was the adoption, after much dis-
cussion and debate, of a law, known as the Employment Act of 1946,
approved by the President on February 20, 1946. This date may mark
the first step in the process of rationalizing the government on an overall
basis and organizing American democracy to fit modern conditions. The
Act, in effect, declares it to be the continuing policy of the federal gov-


---Economics-1947-0-10.txt---
ernment to encourage opportunities of employment for all who are will-
ing and able to work, and to promote employment, production, and
purchasing power. In form the law deals primarily with one aspect of
economic life, employment, but the different facets of economic ac-
tivity are so interrelated that a successful policy assuring continuous
employment would require and assure stability of production, prices,
and other phases of life as well. The statute is couched in negotiated
language, representing compromises between different points of view.
Perhaps this should make it easier for its administrators to command
broad support. It is beyond doubt that the Act provides a foundation
for co6rdinated national economic policy.
It requires the President to transmit to Congress every year at the
opening of the session, an economic report covering in substance all
important phases of the nation's economic life, together with a program
of action. In addition, the President may from time to time transmit
supplementary reports.
The Act sets up a Council of Economic Advisers to assist the Presi-
dent in the formulation of his economic reports. It also creates a Joint
Committee of Congress to receive these reports and to make studies of
its own, and on this basis to transmit to the Senate and House of Repre-
sentatives its own reports containing its findings and recommendations.
This Act contains, in embryo, what is necessary to start the govern-
ment on a road to more effective action. It recognizes the unity of the
problems handled by the different departments and agencies, it gives the
President the kind of help and support that he requires and is entitled to
in the discharge of his great responsibilities, and it improves the proce-
dure for co6peration between the executive and the legislative branches of
government. A stronger and more formal link must be forged in the near
future, but the present law represents a step in the right direction.
This statute has been enacted so recently and the Economic Council
has been constituted for so short a time that it is too early to judge of its
effectiveness in actual operation. Its possibilities, however, are far reach-
ing; it needs the support of all citizens, and more particularly of this
Association, whose former president has been appointed as chairman of
the Council. The country cannot afford to have this promising start be-
come lost in the mazes of official red tape, or in conflicts for power
among agencies. It must become the beacon light leading toward a new
and more adequate machinery of government in a democracy.
The Council is at present in the experimental stage. On how it is de-
veloped and how much importance it gains in shaping the country's
economic policy will depend whether it will signalize a momentous step
forward in the democratic process or merely the emergence of another
in a long series of agencies issuing reports.


---Economics-1947-0-11.txt---
Programs worked out by the Council must be so realistic and convinc-
ing, so well thought out and adapted to the country's needs, so thorough
and so practical as to win acceptance, in whole or in large part, by the
President. His report to Congress, prepared in the light of the Council's
recommendations, would then be such as to enlist the support of public
opinion. Congress and the Executive should then stand together for the
enactment and administration of such laws and policies as the country's
needs demand.
There are in this possibilities of gradual but vital improvement in
our economic life. If the Reports become established as the recognized
authoritative basis of action-the recommendations would become bind-
ing on all heads of government departments and agencies. There would
be less bickering, misunderstanding, and cross-purposes between
branches of the government. A Cabinet member or the head of an
agency would have the sole choice between supporting the program
adopted by the government or resigning.
The sound view that for an official on the Cabinet level the only
alternatives as a matter both of effective public policy and of personal
self-respect, is to co6perate or to resign has never been established in
this country. There is instead a dangerous practice of remaining in office
against one's convictions in order not to split the party, and an inclina-
tion to refuse to quit under fire. These may be good rules of conduct,
when party loyalty or personal integrity is in question, but not when the
issue is one of national policy.
The ideal attitude of a Cabinet minister toward the Cabinet is de-
scribed by Viscount Grey in these significant words:
"... . to put his mind into the common stock; to work sincerely in
matters of difference of opinion and difficulty for a Cabinet decision.
This does not mean that what is regarded by a minister as vital to the
public interest should be compromised. A minister should resign rather
than agree to that [italics supplied]. It means that a minister should not
press his personal views unduly about what is not essential, that he
should contend for substance not for form, that he should consider with-
out amour-propre how his own opinion can be reconciled with that of
others. Subject to the one qualification of not sacrificing what he re-
gards as vital to the public interest, he should not contend for victory,
but for agreement in the Cabinet.
"The other qualification is that of accepting full personal responsibil-
ity for Cabinet decisions, when once agreed to."
This is a statement about a responsible Cabinet of the British type-
by a distinguished member. Adoption of similar principles in an Ameri-
can setting appears to be the only alternative to governmental fumbling.
A clear-cut administrative policy, with all the heads of government


---Economics-1947-0-12.txt---
departments committed to its support, would carry great weight with
the public, which placed it in power. It would also impress Congress.
Adoption in some form of the proposal for Cabinet members to appear
before Congress in person and answering questions in open meeting
would contribute further to cooperation between branches of the gov-
ernment and to recognition of complete accord on policy by the adminis-
tration. It may be feasible for candidates for the Presidency to name
their cabinets before election, so as to make the ministers more conscious
of their responsibility to the people, the ultimate source of their au-
thority.
An American form of responsible government could develop out of the
beginning made by theFull EmploymentAct if it is supported bythe adop-
tion of practices that would increase its effectiveness. The organization
and principles laid down by the constitution and sanctioned by Ameri-
ican tradition would be preserved, and at the same time the government
would become more purposeful and more responsive to the demands of
changing conditions.
To economists and to this Association, the recent step toward a bet-
ter formulated and better implemented public policy is not merely a
matter of general interest. It is a Council of Economic Advisers that
has been established and it is the Council's Economic Reports that are
expected to constitute the heart of public policy. This new instrument
of government gives the profession of economists a broad opportunity
of rendering greater service to the nation and places on them and on this
Association a correspondingly grave responsibility.
What(Congress has said to the economist is in the language of the
gaming table: "Put up-or shut up!" That's the economist's dilemma.
Since economists by occupational selection and by training are not able
to shut up-the only alternative is to put up, that is, to produce the
men, the data, and the understanding, and to promote the public sup-
port essential to the execution of effective economic policy. To this pur-
pose the efforts of economists and of their Association must be rededi-
cated on this its Diamond Jubilee. The Ivory Tower has been con-
quered by events and razed to the ground. The economist is out in the
open and must come to grips with problems of state.


---Economics-1948-0-03.txt---
I. Introduction
A century and a third ago, in 1815, Malthus' and Sir Edward West2
simultaneously pointed out that if successive combined doses of labor
and capital were applied to a given piece of land, the amount of the
product would increase by diminishing increments. Two years later
this principle was adopted by Ricardo in his Principles of Political
Economy as the basis for his theory of distribution. The joint return to
labor and capital was declared by Ricardo to be governed by and to
be equal to the amount of product added by the last combined dose
of labor and capital, while the owners of land received as rent all
sums in excess of these amounts. Since the quantities of labor and
capital were not supposed to vary in relation to each other but were
instead bound together in fixed and unvarying proportions, there was
no way of isolating the specific contributions of these two factors as a
means of determining the rates of wages and of interest. These rates
were instead presumed to be regulated by cost-of-supply factors,
namely, the Malthusian forces governing population which would keep
wages down to a fixed minimum which was at least close to basic sub-
sistence and the low minimum needed to compensate savers and in-
vestors. Such was the classical theory of distribution which dominated
economic thinking for over sixty years.
Meanwhile, in Germany, during the 1840's, Von Thiinen had the-
oretically broken up the combined dose of labor and capital and had
pointed out that when each of the factors was separately increased
but the others held constant, the product increased by diminishing


---Economics-1948-0-04.txt---
increments.3 Von Thilnen went on to state that the rates of wages and
of interest were equal to the amounts of the product added by the last
increments of each. He was thus the real discoverer of marginal pro-
ductivity. Nor was this all. He reasoned that the product added by each
equal increment of a factor was a constant fraction of the preceding
increment of product, namely two-thirds, in the case of labor and nine-
tenths, in the case of capital. This meant that it would be necessary to
increase a factor in a given geometric ratio in order to increase the
product by equal arithmetic amounts. This is precisely the law of the
soil which Mitscherlich and W. J. Spillman later discovered,4 and it
is strikingly similar to the so-called Weber-Fechner law of physiological
response. It would be most interesting to find out whether these con-
clusions of Von Thunen were merely happy hypotheses or whether,
like so much of his work, they were based upon experimentation.
Von Thunen's work, unfortunately, never had the influence which it
deserved. The British, with their customary insularity of thought,
virtually ignored it. The Germans, dominated by the fact-grubbing
historical school, while lavishing attention upon Von Thiunen's theory
of location and his advocacy of </ap as a just wage, almost com-
pletely neglected his discovery of the curve of the diminishing incre-
ment as the guiding principle for both production and distribution.
Indeed, schooled as they were to believe in the relativity of economic
principles, they naturally averted their gaze from what gave every
evidence of being an economic law, which was independent of time
and place.
It is to the glory of American economics that it was,-one of our
own number, John Bates Clark, who at a meeting of our Association
in 1888, fifty-nine years ago tonight, announced what was in effect
the rediscovery of the marginal productivity principle. Clark, who
had studied in Germany, had possibly been unconsciously influenced
by Von Thunen, but certainly he was not consciously following him
when he stated:5
An increasing amount of labor applied to a fixed amount of pure capital goods
yields a smaller and smaller rate of return. . . . Let there be ten thousnd
dollars worth of productive instruments and ten men to use them. Let each
man be supposed to create by the operation a product worth three dollars

---Economics-1948-0-05.txt---
a day. Raise now the number of workmen to twenty and let the capital remain
the same and each man will create less than before. A day's product will be
3 -X dollars. Each successive unit of labor employed in connection with a fixed
amount of pure capital produces less than any of its predecessors. ... General
wages tend to be equal to the actual product created by the last laborer that
is added to the social working force.6
The earnings of capital are subject to identically the same law as those of
labor; they are fixed by the product of the last increment that is brought into
the field. . . . Let the labor supply remain fixed and let capital increase and
each increment of the latter, as it enters the productive field finds that it can
create less than any of its predecessors. The general law of diminishing returns
is two-sided.7
During the next decade Clark completed his theory in a series of
subtle articles, and in 1899 gave it final expression in his book The
Distribution of Wealth.
In the meantime, in 1894, the extraordinarily gifted Philip Wicksteed
showed in his pathbreaking little essay, The Coordination of the Laws
of Distribution, that if production were characterized by a homo-
geneous linear function of the first degree (that is, if when each and
all of the factors of production were doubled or tripled, product would
increase in the same proportion), then with each factor receiving its
marginal product, the total product would be absorbed in payments to
the factors without either surplus or deficit. This essay of Wicksteed's
fluttered the mathematical dovecotes. Edgeworth, who in his Mathe-
matical Psychics, had attempted to prove, by quotations from Owen
Meredith's Lucille, that men should receive larger incomes than women,
now dismissed with elegant irony the theory that production followed
a homogeneous linear function. Pareto's attempted refutation was
almost pure sophistry in which, by limiting the market, he sought to
prove that product would not increase in proportion to the factors.
It remained for Wicksell to give the most sensible treatment of this
subject when he pointed out that while the homogeneous production
function could not be expected to apply over the whole range of output
within a plant, nevertheless under perfect competition, each firm would
tend to carry its scale of output to the point where neither increasing
nor decreasing returns prevailed but where instead the rate of return
was constant.8 Since industries were merely aggregates of firms and
the economy as a whole was an aggregate of industries, it was pre-
sumed that the linear function tended, therefore, to be true of society

---Economics-1948-0-06.txt---
as a whole at its growing points. Under these conditions, Wicksteed's
conclusion held that the payment of the marginal products to each
unit of the respective factors of production exactly distributed the
product.
At this point, the theoretical discussion of marginal productivity
was largely allowed to lapse, except for the clarifications and refine-
ments which were introduced by our chairman, Professor Carver and
by F. M. Taylor.
Over the course of the decades which followed, two tendencies in
economic teaching became fairly evident. The first was a form of split
personality or scientific schizophrenia, which developed in our eco-
nomics departments. In the classes in economic theory, the principles
of pure marginal productivity were taught, uncontaminated by any
idea that there might be imperfect competition in either the product
or the factor markets, or that there might be unemployment for reasons
other than a wage rate in excess of social marginal productivity. This
group taught that labor received the amount which its last unit added
to the total product multiplied by the number of workers, while the
return to capital was similarly determined. Neither trade union nor
governmental action was needed to give to labor its own marginal
product under conditions of full employment. All that was required
was for the employers to bid competitively against each other for
labor and this condition was commonly assumed to exist. But if gov-
ernment and unions disturbed the system of laissez-faire by raising
wage rates above the social margin, this could only be effected by de-
creasing the numbers employed and hence creating unemployment.
In the classes which dealt with labor economics, however, a different
doctrine was taught. Here marginal productivity was muted and the
theory of the Webbs, as developed in Industrial Democracy, was
stressed. It was the pressure of the market competition for lower prices
which, weighing more heavily upon the successive levels of sellers be-
cause of their heavier overhead costs, tended to drive down wages and
to worsen working conditions. Unions and governmental legislation
operating through the imposition of common rules, could not only
protect the workers from this competition but could raise the general
standard of living.
It would be a fascinating task to analyze the differences between
these two sets of theories; one dealing primarily with real and the
other, with money wages; one assuming the relative absence and the
other, the presence of unemployment; one postulating free and per-
fect competition between employers and between workers; the other
absorbed by the power struggles of combinations of employers and
workers. But such is not our present task. It is enough to point out


---Economics-1948-0-07.txt---
that both of these two widely conflicting doctrines have been taught
within our economics departments with little effort made by either
set of protagonists to determine the relative truth of either, or their
compatability. So far has this confusion of doctrine gone, that I have
known professors, who teaching both theory and labor economics,
have instilled the pure doctrine of John Bates Clark during one hour,
and then during the next hour have taught as economic gospel the
bargain theories of Sidney and Beatrice Webb!
The effect upon our students of this dualism in the winds of doctrine
has been most unfortunate. It has caused some to shrug their shoulders
and to dismiss all economic teaching with the words of Omar, so be-
loved by sophomores,
Myself when young, did eagerly frequent
Doctor and Saint, and heard great argument
About it and about; but evermore
Came out by the same door where in I went.
Others, like chameleons, have given diametrically different answers
to identical questions, depending on which instructor asked them.
But to every candidate for the Ph.D. degree, there has loomed the
nightmare of that dreaded hour when in his oral examination, he must
face both sets of teachers and know that the answers which would be
judged right by one school would be judged wrong by the other. Such
a state of affairs is at once both ridiculous and scandalous, and as
long as it continues, there is little hope for scientific progress or even
sound mental health among economists.
But within the ranks of the theorists themselves, a serious intel-
lectual slovenliness, unfortunately, set in. Convinced that the marginal
productivity curves of the factors were negatively inclined, they con-
tented themselves with drawing the curves as sloping downwards and
to the right, but took apparently little interest in trying to determine
what the positions and slopes of these curves actually were. Thus I
have seen an experienced instructor on successive days draw widely
differing marginal productivity curves for labor, one declining very
gradually, one at an angle of 450, and the third plunging sharply
downward. Moreover, this instructor gave every evidence of not
realizing that there was any significant difference between these curves
nor did he indicate whether he was drawing the curves upon an
arithmetic or a double logarithmic scale. Indeed, the slope of the
curve seemed to be determined partly by chance, partly by the stance
of the instructor, and partly by the degree to which he happened to
bend his arm!
The orthodox theorists may urge in self defense that they do not


---Economics-1948-0-08.txt---
have the statistical information which would permit them to approxi-
mate the production function, the elasticities of the marginal pro-
ductivity curves, or to determine the degree to which the actual
distribution of the product conforms to what one would expect from
the nature of the production function itself. But the sad truth of
the matter is that they have made little effort to find out and have
instead turned their backs upon inductive research and have, in effect,
been school men living within ivy-clad towers.
II. The Early Studies of the Cobb-Douglas Production Function
It was twenty years ago last spring that, having computed indexes
for American manufacturing of the numbers of workers employed by
years from 1899 to 1922, as well as indexes of the amounts of fixed
capital in manufacturing deflated to dollars of approximately constant
purchasing power, and then plotting these on a log scale together with
the Day index of physical production for manufacturing, I observed
that the product curve lay consistently between the two curves for the
factors of production and tended to be approximately a quarter of the
relative distance between the curve of the index for labor, which
showed the least increase over the period, and that of the index for
capital which showed the most. Since I was lecturing at Amherst
College at the time, I suggested to my friend, Charles W. Cobb, that
we seek to develop a formula which would measure the relative effect
of labor and capital upon product during this period. We were both
familiar with the Wicksteed analysis and Cobb was, of course, well
versed in the history of the Euler theorem. At his suggestion, therefore,
the sum of the exponents was tentatively made equal to unity in the
formula
P - bLkClk (1)
Here it was only necessary to find the values of b and k. This was
done by the method of least squares and the value of k was found to
be .75. This was almost precisely what we had expected because of
the relative distance of the product curve from those of the two factors.
The value of the capital exponent, or 1-k, was, of course, then taken
as .25. Using these values, we then computed indexes of what we
would theoretically have expected the product to be in each of the
years had it conformed precisely to the formula. We found that the
divergencies between the actual and theoretical product were not
great since in only one year did they amount to more than 11 per cent,
and that except for two years, the deviation of the differences was pre-
cisely what we would expect from the imperfect nature of the indexes
of capital and labor. Since our index of capital measured the quantities


---Economics-1948-0-09.txt---
which were available for, rather than their relative degree of use, it
did not make allowance for the idle capital in periods of depression nor
for the more intensive use of capital during years of prosperity.
Similarly, our index of labor did not make allowance for failures to
work full time in the bad years, nor for overtime hours which were
worked in the good years. It was, therefore, to be expected that the
actual product (P) would exceed the theoretical product (P') in years
of prosperity and would fall below it in years of depression. So in fact
it did in every year except the war years of 1918 and 1919. Professor
Cobb and I, therefore, regarded these deviations as additional evidence
of the general validity of the formula for normal times.
Still another striking bit of evidence was found in the fact that under
perfect competition with a production formula of this type we would
expect a factor to receive as its share of the product, the proportion
indicated by its exponent. From the income studies of the National
Bureau of Economic Research, we found that labor's share of the net
value product of manufacturing during the decade 1909-1918, was
estimated at 74.1 per cent, or almost precisely the value of the ex-
ponent for labor.
Professor Cobb and I embodied the results of our inquiries in a
paper which we read before this Association exactly twenty years ago
tonight.9 We then determined to analyze more of such time series.
Cobb computed indexes of labor, capital, and product in Massachu-
setts manufacturing for the period 1890-1926, and found the value of
k to be .743. Interestingly enough, it was also found that the average
of labor's share of the net value of the product in that state for that
period was .74, or a virtual identity with the value of k.'0 A similar
study, which was made in Chicago by Mr. Director for New South
Wales manufacturing for the period 1901-1927, found k to have a value
of .65.
There the matter more or less rested when my book, The Theory of
Wages, appeared in 1934. Three years later, with the aid of Mrs. Mar-
jorie Handsaker, I resumed our analysis of time series, and after
working up data for Victorian manufacturing for the period 1907-1929,
we found the value of k under the k and 1-k formula to be .7 1." Labor's
share of the net product or W/P was found to be .61 for this period.
We then introduced two important new features into our investiga-

---Economics-1948-0-10.txt---
tions. An able young American scholar, David Durand,'2 had published
in 1937, an excellent critical article of the earlier material, and had
urged that the restricted function of
P = bLkCl-k (1)
be abandoned for one in which the exponent for capital was independ-
ently determined. As he correctly pointed out, the use of the k and 1-k
function assumed the existence of an economic law which it should
be one of the tasks of science to test, namely, the assumption of true
constant returns. If we permitted the exponent for capital to be inde-
pendently determined, it would then be possible for the sum of the
exponents to be either greater or less than unity and hence to show
true increasing and decreasing as well as constant returns to scale. We
therefore decided that Durand's suggestion should be adopted and that
we should try to find the values in terms of the formula:
P - bLkC] (2)
The second change was to broaden our fields of investigation.
Hitherto, we had dealt only with time studies and had found the
values of our exponents from index numbers of labor, capital, and
product within a given economy, with each year serving as a separate
observation. Here we measured the effect upon total physical product,
of changes in the physical quantities of labor and of capital and from
these we derived curves of diminishing incremental physical produc-
tivity of the classical type. We now determined to open up another
field for investigation and to make cross-section analyses between in-
dustries in a given economy for specific years. Thus the annual statis-
tics of manufacturing for the British Dominions (although not the
British Census of Production itself) and the decennial and quin-
quennial Censuses for Manufacturing for the United States up until
1921 showed aggregates for each of a wide variety of industries from
which it was possible to compute: (1) aggregates of the average
numbers employed, including wage earners, clerical and salaried
employees, officials and generally firm members and working pro-
prietors (L), (2) aggregates of capital (C) expressed in terms of
dollars including both fixed and working capital, and (3) aggregates
of the net value of product added by manufacturing expressed in terms
of dollars (P).
In these studies, differences between industries in the quantities of
their net value product were presumed to be a function of the total

---Economics-1948-0-11.txt---
number of employees and of the total quantities of fixed and working
capital with each industry serving as a separate observation. This is
obviously a somewhat different production function from that which is
based on the time series. The quantities of labor used are physical
quantities and though capital is expressed in value terms, these are
also rough measurements of relative physical amounts. But since
product is also expressed in value terms, this is the result not only of:
(a) changes in the increments to the total physical product but also
of (b) changes in the exchange value, or the relative price per unit of
the products of an industry. The net values turned out by the respec-
tive industries will, therefore, be affected in these cases not only by
the quantities produced but also by the respective demand curves for
the products. Changes in each of these variables will affect the total
exchange value produced.
Some critics will, of course, object that this second type of study,
since it includes both quantities and prices, does not measure produc-
tion at all and is in no sense a test of marginal productivity theory. It
is certainly a somewhat different type of production function from
that which is based on index numbers of quantities. But marginal
productivity theory has always implicitly dealt in terms of values as
well as of physical quantities since it assumes that the supplies of labor
and capital in each of the various industries are regulated by the prin-
ciple that the respective marginal laborers will produce equal amounts
of value as will the marginal units of capital. In the apportionment
of resources within an economy, therefore, the principle of diminishing
incremental value productivity is an essential part of economic theory
and is worthy of consideration. There is no reason why a production
function which deals with it should not also be worthy of consideration
and treatment.
Although interrupted by the war, we now have completed six cross-
section or inter-industry studies for American manufacturing, namely,
for the years 1889, 1899, 1904, 1909, 1914, and 1919; four cross-
section studies for Canada covering the years 1923, 1927, 1935, and
1937; three studies for Victoria for the years 1910-11, 1923-24, and
1927-28; one study for New South Wales for 1933-34, and five studies
for the Commonwealth of Australia, namely, 1912, 1922-23, 1926-27,
1934-35, and 1936-37. Two of my students, Messrs. G. Brinegar and
K. 0. Campbell, have just finished such a study for Queensland for
1937-38, and two more, Messrs. B. Solomon and N. A. Deif, are
completing another study for New Zealand for 1926-27. In all, there-
fore, twenty-one cross-section studies have been carried through by
our Chicago group to add to our previous four time studies, namely,


---Economics-1948-0-12.txt---
for the United States, Massachusetts, New South Wales, and Victoria.
In addition, two New Zealand economists, Max Brown"3 and J. W.
Williams,'4 have carried through two time studies for New Zealand
while the latter has also carried through a cross-section study for that
country, as has G. W. G. Browne"5 for South Africa. We have, there-
fore, records for a total of twenty-nine inductive studies of the produc-
tion function instead of the three which were reported upon thirteen
years ago in The Theory of Wages.
In these investigations which have been carried out over the last
two decades, we have had the assistance of a devoted and, I believe,
competent group of associates, and in the aggregate many tens of thou-
sands of hours have been spent upon the work. I am deeply indebted
to this group, and while I am solely responsible for any errors which
may lie within the work, my associates are chiefly entitled to any credit
which may be forthcoming.'6
Since these studies were carried out over a period of many years
and since there were differences between countries and between years
within a country in the basic data used, and since we were also con-
stantly trying to improve our methods, it was inevitable that some
dissimilarities should have developed in the precise content of the
categories used and in the methods of attack. We have now ironed
out a great many of these differences, and I believe that with a few
exceptions which will be later noted, the results have now been made
roughly comparable. It is hoped that in the next few months they may
be made completely so.
III. The Main Results of the Study of the Production
Function in Manufacturing
We can summarize the main results of these studies in three tables.
Table I brings together the main results for manufacturing in the


---Economics-1948-0-13.txt---
United States, as does Table II, for Australia; while Table III covers
the investigations for the three British Dominions of New Zealand,
South Africa, and Canada.
We may properly begin with a consideration of the American results,
which include four time series studies for the period 1899-1922, and
six cross-section or inter-industry investigations for the various census
years from 1889 to 1919. It is unfortunate that the statistics of capital
were omitted from the United State Census of Manufactures after
1919 and that we have been unable to continue our analysis of Ameri-
can data beyond the dates stated. Fortunately, the British Dominions
in their admirable annual Censuses of Production have continued to
collect statistics on the amounts of capital invested and this has per-
mitted us to carry on studies for these countries in more recent times.
The four sets of time studies for the United States show somewhat
differing results because of the differences which exist between the
series of index numbers for labor and product. The precise nature of
these series is described in the footnotes to Table I. It is believed
that Series II, III, and IV, are appreciable improvements over the
original Cobb-Douglas series or Series I. It will be observed that Series
II and III, which use total man years (including clerical employees
as well as wage earners) and total standard man hours respectively,
as the measure of labor, show k's with values of .78 and .73 respectively.
Series IV, which eliminates secular trends from each of the three basic
series and expresses each observation as a percentage of its respective
trend, gives k a value of .63. The value of j varies from .15 under
Series II to .30 under Series IV. On the whole, Series II is the one in
which the definition of the factors of production is most comparable
to that of the cross-section or inter-industry studies, but Series IV
avoids the dangers connected with the downward bias of the index of
production and also eliminates the factor of time.
Five of the six inter-industries studies show lower values for k than
do Series I, II, and III of the time studies. The k's average .63 for the
six cross-section years with the average of the j's amounting to .34. The
values of k and j for the initial and terminal years of 1889 and 1919,
however, deviate appreciably from this average. Those for the earlier
years have lower values of k and higher values of j, while in 1919 this
tendency is reversed. The values of the exponents during the four
middle years of 1899, 1904, 1909, and 1914, however, do exhibit a
marked stability around the general average, with the k's ranging
between .61 and .65, and the j's between .31 and .37.
It will be observed that in three cross-section studies, the values of
k and j are many times their respective standard errors, the k's from


---Economics-1948-0-14.txt---

---Economics-1948-0-15.txt---
17 to 38 times their standard errors and the j's from 12 to 18 times as
great as their standard errors.
On the whole, we should not be surprised by the fact that we obtain
higher values for k and lower values for j in our first three time series
studies than we do for the cross-section studies. For as we have pointed
out, the two functions are, in fact, somewhat different and we should
not necessarily expect identical results. Moreover, in the time studies,
there tends to be a systematic downward bias to the index of produc-
tion which keeps it closer to the index of labor than it should be in
reality and hence gives an excessive value to k. This downward bias is
caused by two factors: (1) Since the indexes are primarily based on
the quantities of raw material produced, they do not include the in-
creased fabrication and reworking of these materials which is a pro-
nounced, although not a universal, tendency of industry. (2) It is in
practice not possible to include with sufficient rapidity the new
products which are continually pushing themselves forward, nor to drop
in adequate time the products which are becoming obsolete. The net
result is to keep the index numbers of Product (P), particularly during
the latter years of a given period, closer to Labor (L) than in reality
they should be and hence k is raised above and j is depressed below
their "true" values.
This weakness is absent from the cross-section or inter-industry
studies, which are made for a given year, and we would, therefore,
expect the k's to be lower and the j's to be higher in this group of
studies. Such is, in fact, exactly the case.
It may be of some significance that when the factor of time is
eliminated from each of the three basic series of Labor, Capital, and
Product, and the deviations from the trends are studied (as in Series
IV), that the true value of k for the period of 1899-1922 is reduced to
.63. This is identical with the average value of k for the six years for
which inter-industry studies were made.
It may also be of some significance that in three of the four time

---Economics-1948-0-16.txt---
studies and in five of the six cross-section studies, the sum of k and j
is slightly less than unity. While this by no means establishes the
reality of true diminishing returns, since the differences between k + j
and unity are well within the range of the standard errors, there is at
least a faint suggestion to that effect. It is possible that American
manufacturing industry during this period may have exceeded the
optimum size and that the desire for the power and prestige which is
attached to bigness may have caused firms to be conducted on a larger
scale than that which was justified by the most efficient combination
of the factors of production.
While all due caution in drawing conclusions should be observed, it
would seem that the most likely long-run norm for k during the period
covered was between .63 and .64; and for j was approximately .34.
This would mean that a change of one per cent in the quantity of labor
(unaccompanied by any change in the quantity of capital) would
normally result during this period in a change in the same direction of
about sixty-three or sixty-four hundredths of one per cent in the
quantity of product, and that similarly a change of one per cent in
quantity of capital (unaccompanied by any change in the quantity of
labor) would normally result, during this period, in a change in the
same direction of about thirty-four hundredths of one per cent. If both
factors of production were increased by one per cent, then the total
product would normally increase during this period by from ninety-
seven to ninety-eight hundredths of one per cent.
If we disregard the slight suggestion of decreasing returns and treat
the most probable sum of the exponents as equal to unity, then an in-
crease of one per cent in the quantities of both labor and capital would
normally result in a corresponding increase of one per cent in product.
A one per cent increase in the quantity of labor alone would normally
be accompanied, during this period, by an increase of approximately
two-thirds of one per cent in product and an increase of one per cent
in the quantity of capital alone would normally be accompanied by
an approximate increase of one-third of one per cent in the product.
Perhaps this is as close a tentative conclusion as we should draw for
this period although further studies may lead to some revision of these
results.
Since under these conditions (i.e., k + j 1.0) the clasticity of the
marginal productivity curves for a given factor is equal to the reciprocal
1 1
of the exponent for the other factors, that is eL, = and ec - 1 ,
1-k i -j
it f ollows that the approximate elasticity of the normal marginal pro-


---Economics-1948-0-17.txt---
ductivity curve for labor during this period would seem to be not far
from 3.0, and for capital, to be around 1.5'"
Let us now turn to the examination of the two time series and nine
cross-section studies which have been made for Australia, and which
are summarized in Table II, with its accompanying notes. In the Vic-
torian time study, k has a value of .84 and j of .23, while in the New
South Wales study, the value of k is .78, and that of j is .20. It should
be noticed, however, that the respective standard errors of k and j
are quite high and that the values of k under the original formula
(P bLkClk) vary somewhat from those obtained under the second
formula.
As we would expect from the reasons which have been given, the
values of k in the nine cross-section studies for Australia are some-
what lower. The combined average of the k's was .60 and of the j's
was .37. Their average sum was, therefore, .97. Here it will be observed
that we get identical results with either formula since the average of the
k's under formula (1) is also .60. It should also be noted that the
values of k are from 8 to 14 times and the j's from 3 to 10 times their
standard errors.
The results for the five Commonwealth studies differ somewhat from
those for the separate states, having somewhat lower k's and higher j's.
Thus, in the Commonwealth, the average of the k's is .55, with a spread
in individual years between .49 and .64, while the average for the four
state studies is .65. On the other hand, the j's average .43 in the Com-
monwealth, as contrasted with .20 in the state studies.'8 After the text
The marginal productivity of labor is
c9P k k
-a = - P = L bL kCi = MPL.
OL L L
The elasticity of the marginal productivity curve for labor is then defined as
k P
1 AIPL 1 L
77 = .~ V ~= _- -
=(MPr') L-k(k?-71)P L
L L2
then
1
k-i
The flexibility of the marginal productivity curve for labor is defined as the reciprocal
of the elasticity of this curve or
= =-= k - 1.

---Economics-1948-0-18.txt---

---Economics-1948-0-19.txt---
for this article had been prepared, Keith Campbell and George
Brinegar, in their Queensland study for 1937-38, found k to have a
value of .58 and j one of .45.19
Since the sum of the exponents tends to be sliglhtly less than unity,
there is an added slight suggestion of true diminishing returns. But
here again, since the difference is less than the standard errors of
estimate, we should be chary about drawing definite conclusions.
If we choose .60 as the most probable "normal" value of k and .37
as the corresponding value of j, this would mean that the approximate
elasticity of the marginal productivity curve in Australia for labor
was somewhere around 2.7 and for capital of about 1.7.
The third set of results which we should consider are those for New
Zealand, Canada, and South Africa. These are shown in Table III.
Using the formula of k and 1-k, Max Brown found for New Zealand a
value of .51 for k for the period 1915-1935,2o and when we reworked
the Brown series with the second formula, we found values of .42 for
k and .49 for j. It is interesting that in the single cross-section study
which has been made for New Zealand, namely, that made by Williams
for 1938-39, k has a value of .46 and j of .51.2Oa In the four Canadian
studies which we made for so-called "normal" years, the k's range
between .43 and .50, with an average of .47, and the j's between .48
and .58, with an average of slightly more than .52. There is a con-
siderable degree of steadiness in these results, which seem to indicate
an elasticity of the marginal productivity curve for labor in that country
as slightly less than 2.0 for the years studied and of capital as slightly
more than that figure.
One of the most interesting studies which has been made is that by
G. W. G. Browne for South Africa for 1937-38. Taking the seventeen
main groups of industry and treating all labor as homogeneous, Browne



---Economics-1948-0-20.txt---


---Economics-1948-0-21.txt---
found the value of k was .66, and that for j, .32. When he made white
and black labor separate factors of production and broke manufactur-
ing down into eighty-five industries, the sum of the two exponents for
labor amounted to .65. While we cannot rely too much upon only one
study, it is of interest that his results were substantially the same as
those which we obtained on the average for the United States for the
period 1889-1919 and not far from the Australian results. This would
be equivalent to an elasticity of approximately 3.0 for the marginal
productivity curve for labor and of 1.5 for the marginal productivity
curve for capital.
If we try to summarize our results, we do find a relatively close
agreement between the values of k and j which we obtain from the
cross-section studies for the United States, Australia, and South Africa.
But we also find differences in the values of k and j (1) between
Canada and New Zealand, on the one hand, and the United States,
upon the other, with the former having lower k's and higher j's than
the United States, and (2) between years within the same country.
This is to be expected, as I pointed out long ago in a section of my
Theory of Wages."1 But underneath all these differences, it is submitted
that there has been for the periods studied, a substantial core of stabil-
ity within countries and that differences in technique, differences in the
relative importance of given industries, and differences in the ratios
of capital to labor may account for such deviations in the values of the
exponents as exist.22
'Douglas, The Theory of wages, pp. 203-4.
"' The economic and statistical meaning of b deserves to be considered.
A. In the four time series for the United States, the values of b under formula (1) are
closely approximate to unity. For the United States the values are the same for each of
the four series.
b b
Series I 1.01 Series III 1.01
Series II 1.01 Series IV 1.01


---Economics-1948-0-22.txt---
It is submitted that the results are, on the whole, corroborative. If
they were purely accidental, as some have charged, they would show
widely varying results. The fact that on the basis of fairly wide studies
there is an appreciable degree of uniformity, and that the sum of the
For Victoria, the value of b was .97 and for New South Wales, 1.02. In all these cases, b  represents the value of the intercept with the functional plane of theoretical product merely
moved up or down by the small difference between the values of b and unity. In the time
series, of course, we are dealing with index numbers which show relative changes, not
absolute values.
B. Under formula (2) (i.e., P = bLkCJ) b deviates in a greater degree from unity because
of the greater degree of freedom given to the exponent for capital. Here the values for
the United States are:
b b
Series I .84 Series III 1.12
Series II 1.38 Series IV 1.35


---Economics-1948-0-23.txt---
exponents approximates unity, fairly clearly suggests that there are
laws of production which can be approximated by inductive studies
and that we are at least approaching them.
And yet it is proper to chronicle the fact that we have obtained
some negative results. One persistent area of difficulty in these last
months has been the Massachusetts time series. We tried to improve
on Professor Cobb's series of capital and product with the result that
the more we refined the basic series, the more nonsensical the results
became. We are still working on this problem, but at the moment we
certainly do not see the light. Secondly, it is disconcerting to observe
that if we shorten our time periods by dropping off a number of terminal
years, we appreciably alter our results. We observed this fact earlier,
as did Professor Williams in New Zealand, but this paradox has been
most manifest when we omit the war years from 1916 on, in our
United States time series. Finally, we have attempted various inter-
spatial studies in which we use individual states as separate observa-
tions. We have personally had no success with these attempts. The
most ambitious study of this latter nature has, however, been made by
my friend and former associate, Ernest Olson, and will be presented to
this Association later in these meetings. I do not wish to anticipate the
results of his paper, but I think it is proper to say that Mr. Olson has
been able to develop a formula which makes differences between coun-
tries in their real national income a mathematical function of (1) the
total energy used, (2) the numbers of the working population, (3) the
quantity of livestock reduced to comparable units, and (4) the amount
of land-and he has derived exponents which indicate the comparative
importance of each. There is still much to be done in this direction and
some hard puzzles remain to be solved, but Mr. Olson's comparative
success offers us some hope that we may not face a completely blank
wall in working with this third method for deriving the laws of pro-
duction.
Finally, I should like to point out that in the case of the United
States, we were compelled because of lack of capital figures, to stop with
1922 in our time series and with 1919 in our cross-section studies. We
have, therefore, not been able to cover the very perplexing period of
1920-40. I am doubtful for two reasons whether we can develop a
satisfactory production function for the United States during this
period: (a) In spite of the excellent work of the National Bureau of
Economic Research, we still lack adequate data for this period on the
capital available for use; and (b) there was wide variation between the
decades in the degree to which the available capital was actually used.
During the 'twenties, capital was quite fully employed, but during the


---Economics-1948-0-24.txt---
'thirties a large proportion of this equipment lay idle. Variations in the
degree to which available capital was utilized created some difficulties
within the ordinary business cycles which prevailed between 1899 and
1919 when each of the four phases of the cycle did not last for more
than one or two years. But the period between the two wars was quite
extraordinary in that we had high prosperity from 1922 to the fall of
1929 and that we did not fully recover from the collapse which then
set in until 1941. It was this fundamental difficulty which prevented one
of my students, Mr. Leonard Felsenthal, from developing a satisfactory
production function for Germany in the inter-war period. I shall, there-
fore, await with sympathetic interest the paper on this subject which
Mr. Burton Wall is to give tomorrow.
IV. The Production Function as Based on Plant Averages Rather
than Industry Aggregates
The inductive values which have thus far been developed in the
cross-section or inter-industry studies have been based on industry
aggregates, namely the totals of workers, capital, and net values added
by manufacturing in each industry. This method is somewhat discon-
certing to those who are accustomed in their a priori reasoning to start
with the theory of production for the individual firm and who then
move to a model for a given industry but who shy away from develop-
ing a theory of production for the economy as a whole or from the
manufacturing sector of that economy. Such theorists probably be-
lieve that we are starting at the wrong end and that we should begin
instead with the individual firm rather than the whole manufacturing
sector of the economy and that we should consider the production func-
tion within these units rather than deal with inter-industry and aggre-
gate functions.
There are two answers to this position. The first is that I should be
very glad indeed to make studies of individual firms if the necessary
data were available. But statistics on the changing quantities of labor
and capital which are used over a period of time by individual firms,
and the amounts of product which are thus turned out by them, are
some of the most carefully guarded secrets of business. I am reluctant
to believe that we should stop all our investigations until all of these
facts are forthcoming for a multitude of firms.
Secondly, I personally see no reason why we cannot approach this
problem from either end and study the macrocosm as well as the
microcosm. No one, for example, in the physical sciences would pro-
pose that we give up using the telescope because the microscope had
not yielded all its secrets. Why should we not, therefore, study the


---Economics-1948-0-25.txt---
economy as a whole as well as speculate about the individual firm,
particularly since a knowledge of the former throws a great deal of
light upon the problems of the latter?
In the meantime, however, we should all welcome such brilliant
studies of the production function for individual firms as that which
will shortly be published by my friend and colleague, Professor William
H. Nicholls, for a meat-packing plant.22a Moreover, if we could get the
figures for specific firms and plants within given industries for a specific
year, we would then be able to develop production functions for each
of the main industries with each firm serving as an observation. But
the census has always been obligated to conceal the identity of the
specific firms which report to it and can only publish totals by in-
dustries and geographical subdivisions. This fact prevents us, at
present, from developing such studies, although it is barely possible
that either the Census Bureau itself or employers' associations could
carry them on, were they once convinced of their value. This cannot,
however, be done at present.
To my mind, therefore, we are at present forced to work primarily
with industry aggregates. But there is one important refinement which
we can and should introduce. That is to divide the total number of
workers, the aggregate amounts of capital, and the total net value of the
product in each of the various industries by the number of plants in
that industry. This will give us plant averages for given industries
rather than industry aggregates as the individual observations23 and
from these we can derive another variant of the production function.
We have made such studies for each of the six years which were
covered for American manufacturing and for two of the Australian
studies and these results are embodied in Table IV.
It will thus be seen that while we obtained closely similar results in
Australia by the two methods, nevertheless, clear differences developed
in the case of the United States. In every year the value of k in our
American studies was substantially less under the method of plant
averages than it was under the method of industry aggregates. The
amount of this difference ranged between 5 and 6 points, as in 1904 and
1909, to 15 points in 1889. On the other hand, the values of j were
always higher under the methods of plant averages than under that of
industry aggregates but the amounts of these differences were much less.
As a result, the combined values of k + j are less by from 3 to 8 points

---Economics-1948-0-26.txt---
on the plant average basis than they are when industry aggregates are
used and, indeed, average only .92. This gives an unmistakable in-
dication of true diminishing returns so far as the size of individual
plants is concerned. While much more study is needed to develop and
to clarify this point, it is suggested that quite possibly American plants
during this period were in practice developed beyond the point of
maximum efficiency. Whether or not the differences between the re-
spective k + j's can be taken as a coefficient of managerial megalo-
mania, I shall have to leave to the psychiatrists.24

---Economics-1948-0-27.txt---
V. Do the Deviations of the Actual Products from Those Which We
Would Theoretically Expect from the Formula Tend to Strengthen
or Weaken Belief in the Validity of the
Production Function?
An important test of our function is the degree to which the values
of the product which we would expect from the quantities of labor
and capital available, tend in practice to be realized in terms of actual
product in each of the various industries during the given years. We
have made these tests and I should like to present our results in a
series of charts and summary tables. As a first step, we computed


---Economics-1948-0-28.txt---
the standard errors of estimate (S) for each stuidy. Under a normal
distribution of cases with the only departures of the actual from
theoretical values being those caused by random errors of measure-
ment and of sampling, we would expect that in 68.3 per cent of the cases
the actual values would deviate from the theoretical values by less
than one standard error of estimate, and that in 95 per cent of the
cases the actual values would deviate from the theoretical values by
less than two such standard errors. In only one per cent of the cases
would the actual values deviate by more than three standard errors of
estimate. Then in our charts of the cross-section or inter-industry


---Economics-1948-0-29.txt---
studies, we have plotted the logs of the theoretical or expected products
on the vertical scale and of the actual products on the horizontal scale.
Since the values of scale are the same on both axes, the line BB' (with
a slope of unity) is the locus of all those points for which the theoretical
values of the product are identical with the actual values. In these
studies for a given year, it will be remembered that each industry
constitutes a separate observation.
The degree of departure of the actual from the theoretical values is,
therefore, shown by either the horizontal or the vertical distance of a
given point from the line BB'. We have, therefore, marked out on each


---Economics-1948-0-30.txt---
side of the line BB' two other pairs of lines at the respective distances
of one and two standard errors of estimate. An inspection of these
charts for American manufacturing for the years 1889, 1899, 1904,
1909, 1914, and 1919, (Charts I, II, III, IV, V, and VI) show that in
practice the actual values tend to be close to the line BB', and a sta-
tistical analysis of these variations is given in Table V. Here it will be
seen that in every year more than 70 per cent of the actual values were
within one standard error of estimate of the values which we would
theoretically expect under the formula and that in two of the six years,
over 80 per cent of the cases were within this range.
Taking the 2185 industry observations in the United States as a
whole, we find that in 76.5 per cent of the cases, the actual products
were within one standard error of estimate of the theoretical products,
whereas under a normal distribution we would only expect a little over
68 per cent of the cases to lie within this range. Moreover, in only one
year did the number of observations whose actual products varied
from the theoretical values by more than two standard errors of esti-
mate come to as much as 6 per cent of the total while the average for
all 2185 observations was 4 per cent as compared with the 5 per cent
which we would normally expect.25
In our American studies, the distribution of the actual values about

---Economics-1948-0-31.txt---
the theoretical values is, therefore, somewhat closer than what we
would normally expect on the basis of random errors of sampling and
of measurement. Belief in the reliability of the formula as a descrip-
tion of production during this period is, therefore, strengthened, rather
than weakened.

Let us see from Table VI if these results are confirmed by an analysis
of the deviations of the actual from the theoretical values in the thirteen
cross-section studies which we have thus far made for the Dominions
within the British Commonwealth of Nations. It will be noticed that
out of the total of 1373 observations, 1025, or over 74 per cent deviated
by less than one standard error of estimate from the theoretical values,


---Economics-1948-0-32.txt---
and that between 94 and 95 per cent deviated by less than two stand-
ard errors of estimate. The distribution of the observations in this
sample is, therefore, somnewhat better than that which we would expect
under normzal condi'tions of random error. Credence in the production
function would seem to be further reinforced."5a
The fact that we have, therefore, in practice, a somewhat closer
distribution of the actual values about the line of the theoretical values


---Economics-1948-0-33.txt---
under the formula than we would normally expect, is all the more
striking in view of the fact that the values of the production function
need not be the same within all industries or allied groups of industries.

As I have constantly pointed out during the last twenty years, there
is no reason why the exponents of capital and labor should be constant
for all periods and economies. As a matter of fact, we have already
seen that they are not and that there is some variation between coun-
tries and years in the values of k and j. We would similarly expect
some variation to exist as between groups of industries within a country
at any given time. Thus the values of the production function for the


---Economics-1948-0-34.txt---
textile industries need not be the same as for the clothing group, while
these might well differ from those prevailing in the food industries
and be appreciably different from those in the iron and steel and heavy
metals industries, etc. If, therefore, we could compute separate values

of k and j for each of the various main groups of manufacturing and
compare the actual with the resulting theoretical products, we could
doubtless find the resulting deviations to be appreciably less than those
obtained when we treat all manufacturing as a whole. The fact that we do
get such a good fit when we treat all of the industries as homogeneous
is, therefore, all the more remarkable. It seems, further, to suggest that
to the degree that the values of k and j do differ between groups of


---Economics-1948-0-35.txt---
industries, such differences tend to be more or less symmetrically dis-
tributed around the "normal" values which we have found in the given
years for manufacturing as a whole.
A further analysis of the plus and minus deviations offers interesting
suggestions. We would expect industries characterized by monopoly
and by highly imperfect competition to have a value product which
would be appreciably greater than that which we would expect from
the production formula itself, and from the quantities of labor and
capital which are available. This would be caused by the control over
supplies and prices exercised by the dominant firms and by their
ability to control or to limit entrance into the monopolized industries.
Conversely, in the industries which may be characterized by "exces-
sive" competition into which large numbers of workers and also in
some cases, relatively large quantities of capital are forced and which
consequently lower the marginal productivity of one or both factors
appreciably below their general levels, we would expect the value prod-
uct per unit of labor and possibly also of capital, to be below the gen-
eral average for society as a whole.
Similarly, we would expect that the industries which are rapidly
expanding because of an increase in demand or in the disposition of
consumers income, or because of great technical progress, will have
value products which are in excess of those derived from the formula.
Conversely, again, we would expect that the contracting industries,
which are suffering from a decrease in demand and an obsolescence of
technique, would produce less value product than that which our
formula would predict.
There are, moreover, a considerable number of industries which
probably can best be described as "sweated." These are industries
which have had large supplies of cheap labor, sometimes caused, as in
the past, by an influx of immigrants or by the presence of a large num-
ber of women and juveniles who are forced to seek work because of
the low earnings of the male heads of households. The average earnings
in these industries tends to be appreciably below the national average,
and if there is a normal degree of competition at work, these low earn-
ings will commonly be translated into a lower sales price for the product
than would normally be the case. The value product in these industries
will, therefore, tend to be less than what would be shown under the
formula for manufacturing as a whole.
We can test the relative truth of these hypotheses both by statistical
analysis and also by identifying the specific industries where the devia-
tions of the actual from the theoretical values are great. In analyzing
the American deviations by years, as in Table VII, certain marked


---Economics-1948-0-36.txt---
differences appear between the results for the earliest year of 1889
and the years from 1904 on. From 1904 on, and particularly in 1914
and 1919, the big deviations were predominantly on the plus, and the
minor deviations on the minus, side. Thus, in 1919, of the 18 industries
where the deviations amounted to more than two standard errors of
estimate, 16 had their actual products in excess of the theoretical
values, while in only two cases did they fall below. On the other hand,
of the 538 industries in 1919 where the deviations amounted to less
than two standard errors, 308 or nearly three-fifths, were below what
would have been expected under the formula. For the three census years
of 1909, 1914, and 1919, there were 29 industry observations where
the actual products were more than two standard errors of estimate
greater than the theoretical values and only 10 industry observations
which were more than two standard errors less. Conversely, in these
three years there were only 504 industries which had actual products
which exceeded the theoretical values up to two standard errors as
contrasted with 613 industries where the actual products fell below
the theoretical by these amounts.
The general framework of these later results is approximately what
we would expect on theoretical grounds. The monopolistic and expand-
ing industries tend to absorb large quantities of purchasing power at
the expense of the rest of the economy. They would, therefore, be
expected to show wider profit margins than the general average and
each combined dose of labor and capital would consequently tend to
yield a greater dollar value than would normally be the case. The with-
drawal of this purchasing power would, moreover, exert a slight de-
pressing influence upon each of the remaining industries so that we


---Economics-1948-0-37.txt---
would expect the number of industries where the actual product fell
below the theoretical to exceed in number those where it was greater.
This was exactly what happened from 1904 to 1919. Why the opposite
result should have occurred in 1889 and to a much lesser degree in
1899, however, merits further study.
Even more important, however, is an analysis of each of the 87
American cases where the deviations were more than two standard
errors of estimate from the theoretical values and I only regret that
lack of time prevents a full analysis of these instances. Let us first
consider the forty in which the deviations were of a minus nature. In no
less than ten cases, these were in the flax, hemp, linen, jute and oakum
family of industries, which has always been one of the most "sweated"
groups in all industrial countries. Two were in allied "sweated" in-
dustries, namely nets and seines (1904) and hammocks (1889), while
three more were connected with cotton which has generally been a
sub-standard industry. Three more, charcoal, waste, and canning
oysters, have been distinctly disagreeable and badly "sweated" indus-
tries, while several others, such as grindstones, millstones, hooks and
eyes, etc., were instances of contracting demand.
On the other hand, the vast majority of the plus deviations which
amounted to more than two standard errors of estimate can be ex-
plained as caused by (1) some form of quasi-monopoly or imperfect
competition, or (2) by expanding demand, or (3) by both factors.
Examples of the first are wood engraving, gold and silver reducing,
lapidary work, music publishing, glucose, starch, linseed oil, patent
medicines, tin plate, brass, and lead. These in themselves accounted
for nineteen of the markedly plus deviations.
Illustrations of the second group, namely those caused by an ex-
panding demand, were cordials and flavoring syrups (1909, 1914,
1919), oleomargarine (1914), perfumery (1919), and washing ma-
chines (1919).
There is also a third class of plus deviations which was probably
affected both by imperfect competition and by expanding demand. Il-
lustrations of this group are airplanes (1914), chewing gum (1919),
cigars and cigarettes (1919), fountain pens (1914), photographic sup-
plies and equipment (1904, 1909, 1914), cash registers (1889), smelt-
ing and refining copper (1899, 1904), typewriters and supplies (1889).
A very large majority of the major deviations so far as the United
States is concerned, were, therefore, precisely what we would expect
on a priori grounds. Belief in the function as a description of "normal"
relationships is, therefore, still further strengthened.


---Economics-1948-0-38.txt---
VI. To What Degree Do the Shares Which Labor and Capital Receive
of the Product Approximate the Proportions Which We Would
Expect from the Values of the Production Function?
We now come to one of the most important features of the theory of
production and of distribution, namely, the relative degree to which
the actual shares received by labor and capital approximate those

which we would expect from the values of the production function. As
my associates and I have demonstrated mathematically a number of
times, we would expect, under conditions of (1) true constant returns
where the sum of the exponents is equal to unity and (2) perfect
competition, that each factor of production would receive that fraction
of the total product which is indicated by its exponent.26


---Economics-1948-0-39.txt---
Let us, therefore, compare the actual share which wages and salaries
formed of the net value product (i.e., W/P) in the various years with
the values of k. It will also be instructive to compare W/P with the
k
ratio of since the latter is a rough measure of what we would
k + j
approximately expect to occur if the total product were to be divided
between labor and capital so as to eliminate either net residual profits
or losses.
This is shown for the United States cross-section studies in Table
VIII. From an examination of this table, it will be seen that in five
of the six years there was a very close agreement between the values
of k and of W/P. In one year (1909), there was precise agreement
between the two; in two of the years (1904 and 1914), the differences
were approximately only one standard error, while in two more (1889
and 1899), they amounted to two to three standard errors. The biggest
difference was in 1919 when W/P was less than k by over eight stand-
ard errors."
Taking the average for the six years as a whole, we find that k
k
averages .63, equals .65, and labor's actual share or bl/P was
k+ j
.605. There was, therefore, a close average agreement for the period
between what we would have theoretically expected the distribution of
the product to be under conditions of perfect competition and that
which actually occurred. It should be remembered, moreover, that due
to our inability to deduct allowances for depreciation in specific in-
dustries, the true values of W/P are probably understated by ap-
proximately 3 percentage points,28 and that, therefore, the average

---Economics-1948-0-40.txt---
ratio of W/P was probably very close to .63 or the exact average
value of k.
I submit, therefore, that the degree of agreement between the values
of k and of W/P is most striking and that the results conform to what
normally would be expected to occur under competitive productivity
theory. Hence, this constitutes a still further reinforcement to the
productivity function itself.
It should, however, be frankly recognized that there is a further
problem of reconciling these results with the known facts of imperfect
competition, oligopoly and monopoly. Such conditions, as has been
abundantly developed in our meetings, do exist, and, in fact, charac-
terize a large sector of our economy. It is, therefore, puzzling to find
labor's share approximately equal to that which we would expect under
conditions of perfect competition. A further investigation of this sub-
ject is much needed. In the meantime, I would merely suggest that
perhaps one answer to the paradox may be that the quasi-monopolies
and oligopolies may have shared with their workers the excess gains
which they have made at the expense of the consumers.
We can make a further test of the degree to which W/P approxi-
k
mates k and by examining the results for the British Dominions
of Australia, New Zealand, and Canada. This is done in Table IX.
Taken in the large, the agreement in the cross-section studies for
Australia between the values of W/P and k are indeed striking. In each
and all of the five inter-industry studies for the Commonwealth, the
differences never exceeded one standard error of k. For the five years
as a whole, the average value of k and W/P were both .55. The average
k
value of was .56. It would scarcely be possible to have a closer
k? j
agreement than this.
In the case of the four studies for the Australian states, the dif-
ferences in the case of Victoria were not great, never exceeding two
standard errors of k and being slightly reduced if the comparisons are
k
made between W/P and .29 For the three years as a whole, the
k? j
differences are largely ironed out since the average values of k are .65
k
and of W/P .66. The average value of was .70.
k? j


---Economics-1948-0-41.txt---


---Economics-1948-0-42.txt---
In the one cross-section study which was carried through for New
South WVales, the differences were greater, amounting to between 3
and 4 standard errors of estimate. In the case of Canada, however, the
average degree of agreement was very close. The average value of k
k
for the four years was .47, and similarly, was .47; while the
k?j.
average ratio of W/P was .48. This is an almost precise agreement.
This agreement was also true of the years 1923 and 1927 when they
are considered individually. The years 1935 and 1937, however, exhibit
opposing tendencies. In the former year, k exceeded W/P by an ap-
preciable amount; in the latter year, which was marked by great wage
advances in the United States, which were reflected to some degree in
Canada, this situation was exactly reversed. The two differences, how-
ever, almost precisely offset each other. The case of South Africa does,
however, merit special mention. As I have pointed out, Professor
Browne found that the combined exponents for black and white labor
in 1937-38 were .65, but he also found that both groups of labor re-
ceived only a total of .46 per cent of the net value added. While Profes-
sor Browne does not draw such a conclusion, perhaps this is a case
where a highly monopolized set of industries which are largely run by
foreign employers or by men whose cultural interests are elsewhere, do
not give to the laborers that which in a competitive society they would
obtain.
VII. Summary
After working on this problem for the better part of twenty years,
I think I am aware of the many difficulties which are involved. In a
few cases, the method apparently breaks down and in other cases in-
congruous results are obtained. I should like to suggest, however, that
the following tentative conclusions seem justified.
1. That within a given country for the periods studied, there is a
substantial and indeed a surprising degree of agreement in the values
of k and of j which we obtain for various years.
2. There is also a surprising degree of agreement between the results
for the United States, Australia, and South Africa.
3. It is hard to believe that these results can be purely accidental,
as some critics have maintained.30 Time studies for the period between


---Economics-1948-0-43.txt---
the two great wars are, however, likely to present difficulties,.
4. The deviations of the actual or observed values from those which
we would theoretically expect to prevail under the formula are not large
and indeed are slightly less than we would expect under the random
distribution of errors of sampling and of measurement. It is submitted
that the total number of observations, namely over 3,500, is sufficiently
large so that if the results had been purely accidental, this degree of
agreement would not have occurred.
5. The instances of large deviations of the actual from the theoretical
values can in most cases be explained as being caused by imperfect
competition and by expanding demand in the case of the plus deviations
and by contracting demand, "sweating," and possibly "excessive" com-
petition in the case of the minus industries. This would indicate that if
these complications could be eliminated, the agreement between the
actual and theoretical products would be greater.
6. That, taken in the large, there is an almost precise degree of
agreement between the actual share received by labor and that which,
according to the theory of marginal productivity, we would expect labor
to obtain.
In conclusion, may I emphasize again that there is much work which
remains to be done on this question and that a lifetime would be all too
short to probe the many problems which present themselves. Is it too
much to hope that the succeeding twenty years may see further progress
along this line and that if the older generation finds it impossible to carry
on such studies, the younger economists may find such lines of
inquiry a challenge to their ingenuity and abilities?3' I have always
been struck by the old Hindu saying, "This is no door but only a little
window that opens out upon a great world." Since this is peculiarly
applicable to the studies which I have attempted, upon that note I shall
end.


---Economics-1949-0-03.txt---
I
A hundred years ago economists were much more pleased with
their performance than they are today. But I submit that, if com-
placency can ever be justified, there is much more reason for being
complacent today than there was then or even a quarter of a century
ago. As regards command of facts, both statistical and historical, this
is so obviously true that I need not insist. And if it be true of our
command of facts, it must be true also for all the applied fields that
for their advance mainly depend upon fact finding. I must insist,
however, on the proposition that our powers of analysis have grown
in step with our stock of facts. A new organon of statistical methods
has emerged, to some extent by our own efforts, that is bouind to mean
as much to us as it does to all the sciences, such as biology or experi-
mental psychology, the phenomena of which are given in terms of
frequency distributions. In response to this development and in al-
liance with it, as well as independently, our own box of analytic tools
has been greatly enriched: economic theory, in the instrumental sense
of the term-in which it means neither the teaching of ultimate ends
of policy nor explanatory hypotheses but simply the sum total of our
methods of handling facts-has grown quite as much as Marshall
and Pareto had foreseen that it would.
If this is not more generally recognized and if it is etiquette with
economists-let alone the public-to pass derogatory judgment on
the state of our science, this is owing to a number of causes that,
though known all too well, should be repeated: a building plot on
which old structures are being torn down and new ones erected is
not an esthetic thing to behold; moreover, to a most discouraging extent
the new structures are being currently discredited by premature at-
tempts at utilitarian application; finally, the building area widens so


---Economics-1949-0-04.txt---
that it becomes impossible for the individual worker to understand
everything that is going oni beyond his own small sector. It would
indeed be difficult to present in systematic form, as the Smiths, Mills,
and Marshalls have been able to do with more or less suiccess, a
comprehensive treatise that might display some measure of unity and
command all but universal approval. Thus, though the workers in
each sector are not at all displeased with how they are getting on
themselves, they are quite likely to disapprove of the manner in which
those in all the others go about their tasks, or even to deny that these
other tasks are worth bothering about at all. This is but natural. Many
types of mind are needed to build up the structure of human knowl-
edge, types which never quite understand one another. Science is
technique and the more it develops, the more completely does it pass
out of the range of comprehension not only of the public but, minus
his own chosen specialty, of the research worker himself. More or
less, this is so everywhere although greater uniformity of training
and greater discipline of endeavor may in physics reduce the tumult
to something like order. As everyone knows, however, there is with us
another source of confusion and another barrier to advance: most of
us, not content with their scientific task, yield to the call of public
duty and to their desire to serve their country and their age, and in
doing so bring into their work their individual schemes of values and
all their policies and politics-the whole of their moral personalities
up to their spiritual ambitions.
I am not going to reopen the old discussion on value judgments or
about the advocacy of group interests. On the contrary, it is essential
for my purpose to emphasize that in itself scientific performance does
not require us to divest ourselves of our value judgments or to re-
nounce the calling of an advocate of some particular interest. To
investigate facts or to develop tools for doing so is one thing; to
evaluate them from some moral or cultural standpoint is, in logic,
another thing, and the two need not conflict. Similarly, the advocate
of some interest may yet do honest analytic work, and the motive
of proving a point for the interest to which he owes allegiance does
not in itself prove anything for or against this analytic work: more
bluntly, advocacy does not imply lying. It spells indeed misconduct
to bend either facts or inferences from facts in order to make them
serve either an ideal or an interest. But such misconduct is not neces-
sarily inherent in a worker's arguing from "axiological premises" or
in advocacy per se.' Examples abound in which economists have estab-

---Economics-1949-0-05.txt---
lished propositions for the implications of which they did not have
any sympathy. To mention a single instance: to establish the logical
consistency of the conditions (equations) that are descriptive of a
socialist economy will seem to most people equivalent to gaining a
point for socialism; but it was established by Enrico Barone, a man
who, whatever else he may have been, was certainly no sympathizer
with socialist ideals or groups.
But there exist in our minds preconceptions about the economic
process that are much more dangerous to the cumulative growth of our
knowledge and the scientific character of our analytic endeavors be-
cause they seem beyond our control in a sense in which value judgments
and special pleadings are not. Though mostly allied with these, they
deserve to be separated from them and to be discussed independently.
We shall call them Ideologies.
II
The word ide'ologie was current in France toward the end of the
18th and in the first decade of the 19th century and meant much the
same thing as did the Scottish moral philosophy of the same and an
earlier time or as our own social science in that widest acceptance of
the term in which it includes psychology. Napoleon imparted a de-
rogatory meaning to it by his sneers at the ideologues-doctrinaire
dreamers without any sense for the realities of politics. Later on, it
was used as it is often used today in order to denote systems of ideas,
that is, in a way in which our distinction between ideologies and
value judgments is lost. We have nothing to do with these or any other
meanings except one that may be most readily introduced by ref-
erence to the "historical materialism" of Marx and Engels. According
to this doctrine, history is determined by the autonomous evolution
of the structure of production: the social and political organization,
religions, morals, arts and sciences are mere "ideological superstruc-
tures," generated by the economic process.
We neither need nor can go into the merits and demerits of this
conception as such2 of which only one feature is relevant to our pur-
pose. This feature is the one that has, through various transformations,
developed into the sociology of science of the type associated with the

---Economics-1949-0-06.txt---
names of Max Scheler and Karl Mannheim. Roughly up to the middle
of the 19th century the evolution of "science" had been looked upon
as a purely intellectual process-as a sequence of explorations of the
empirically given universe or, as we may also put it, as a process of
filiation of discoveries or analytic ideas that went on, thoughl no doubt
influencing social history and being influenced by it in many ways,
according to a law of its own. M1arx was the first to turn this relation
of interdependence between "science" and other departments of social
history into a relation of dependence of the former on the objective
data of the social structure and in particular on the social location
of scientific workers that determines their outlook upon reality and
hence what they see of it and how they see it. This kind of relativism-
which must of course not be confused with any other kind of relativ-
ism3-if rigorously carried to its logical consequences spells a new
philosophy of science and a new definition of scientific truth. Even for
mathematics and logic and still more for physics, the scientific worker's
choice of problems and' of approaches to them, hence the pattern of
an epoch's scientific thought, becomes socially conditioned-which is
precisely what we mean when speaking of scientific ideology rather
than of the ever more perfect perception of objective scientific truths.
Few will deny, however, that in the cases of logic, mathematics, and
physics the influence of ideological bias does not extend beyond that
choice of problems and approaches, that is to say, that the sociological
interpretation does not, at least for the last two or three centuries,
challenge the "objective truth" of the findings. This "objective truth"
may be, and currently is being, challenged on other grounds but not
on the ground that a given proposition is true only with reference to
the social location of the men who formulated it. To some extent at
least, this favorable situation may be accounted for by the fact that
logic, mathematics, physics and so on deal with experience that is
largely invariant to the observer's social location and practically in-
variant to historical change: for capitalist and proletarian, a falling
stone looks alike. The social sciences do not share this advantage. It
is possible, or so it seems, to challenge their findings not only on all
the grounds on which the propositions of all sciences may be challenged
but also on the additional one that they cannot convey more than a
writer's class affiliations and that, without reference to such class
affiliations, there is no room for the categories of true or false, hence
for the conception of "scientific advance" at all. Henceforth we adopt

---Economics-1949-0-07.txt---
the term Ideology or Ideological Bias for this-real or supposed-
state of things alone, and our problem is to ascertain the extent to
which ideological bias is or has been a factor in the development of
what-conceivably-it might be a misnomer to call scientific eco-
nomics.
In recognizing the ideological element it is possible to go to very
different lengths. There are a few writers who have in fact denied that
there is such a thing in economics as accumulation of a stock of
"correctly" observed facts and "true" propositions. But equally small
is the minority who would deny the influence of ideological bias en-
tirely. The majority of economists stand between these extremes: they
are ready enough to admit its presence though, like Marx, they find
it only in others and never in themselves; but they do not admit that
it is an inescapable curse and that it vitiates economics to its core.
It is precisely this intermediate position that raises our problem. For
ideologies are not simply lies; they are truthful statements about what
a man thinks he sees. Just as the medieval knight saw himself as he
wished to see himself and just as the modern bureaucrat does the
same and just as both failed and fail to see whatever may be adduced
against their seeing themselves as the defenders of the weak and
innocent and the sponsors of the Common Good, so every other social
group develops a protective ideology which is nothing if not sincere.
Ex hypothesi we are not aware of our rationalizations-how then is it
possible to recognize and to guard against them?
But let me repeat before I go on: I am speaking of science which is
technique that turns out the results which, together with value judg-
ments or preferences, produce recommendations, either individual ones
or systems of them-such as the systems of mercantilism, liberalism
and so on. I am not speaking of these value judgments and these
recommendations themselves. I fully agree with those who maintain
that judgments about ultimate values-about the Common Good, for
instance-are beyond the scientist's range except as objects of his-
torical study, that they are ideologies by nature and that the concept
of scientific progress can be applied to them only so far as the means
may be perfected that are to implement them. I share the conviction
that there is no sense in saying that the world of ideas of bourgeois
liberalism is "superior" in any relevant sense to the world of ideas of
the middle ages, or the world of ideas of socialism to that of bourgeois
liberalism. Actually, I further believe that there is no reason other than
personal preference for saying that more wisdom or knowledge goes
into our policies than went into those of the Tudors or Stuarts or, for
that matter, into Charlemagne's.


---Economics-1949-0-08.txt---
III
So soon as we have realized the possibility of ideological bias, it is
not difficult to locate it. All we have to do for this purpose is to
scrutinize scientific procedure. It starts from the perception of a set
of related phenomena which we wish to analyze and ends up-for the
time being-with a scientific model in which these phenomena are
conceptualized and the relations between them explicitly formulated,
either as assumptions or as propositions (theorems). This primitive
way of putting it may not satisfy the logician but it is all we need
for our hunt for ideological bias. Two things should be observed.
First, that perception of a set of related phenomena is a pre-
scientific act. It must be performed in order to give to our minds
something to do scientific work on-to indicate an object of research
-but it is not scientific in itself. But though prescientific, it is not
preanalytic. It does not simply consist in perceiving facts by one or
more of our senses. These facts must be recognized as having some
meaning or relevance that justifies our interest in them and they must
be recognized as related-so that we might separate them from others
-which involves some analytic work by our fancy or common sense.
This mixture of perceptions and prescientific analysis we shall call the
research worker's Vision or Intuition. In practice, of course, we hardly
ever start from scratch so that the prescientific act of vision is not
entirely our own. We start from the work of our predecessors or con-
temporaries or else from the ideas that float around us in the public
mind. In this case our vision will also contain at least some of the
results of previous scientific analysis. However, this compound is still
given to us and exists before we start scientific work ourselves.
Second, if I have identified with "model building" the scientific
analysis that operates upon the material proffered by the vision, I
must add at once that I intend to give the term "model" a very wide
meaning. The explicit economic model of our own day and its analoga
in other sciences are of course the product of late stages of scientific
endeavor. Essentially, however, they do not do anything that is not
present in the earliest forms of analytic endeavor which may therefore
also be said to have issued, with every individual worker, in primitive,
fragmentary, and inefficient models. This work consists in picking out
certain facts rather than others, in pinning them down by labeling
them, in accumulating further facts in order not only to supplement
but in part also to replace those originally fastened upon, in formulating
and improving the relations perceived-briefly, in "factual" and
"theoretical" research that go on in an endless chain of give and take,
the facts suggesting new analytic instruments (theories) and these
in turn carrying us toward the recognition of new facts. This is as


---Economics-1949-0-09.txt---
true when the object of our interest is an historical report as it is
when the object of our interest is to "rationalize" the Schr6dinger
equation though in any particular instance the task of fact finding or
the task of analyzing may so dominate the other as to almost
remove it from sight. Schoolmasters may try to make this clearer to
their pupils by talking about induction and deduction and even set the
one against the other, creating spurious problems thereby. The essential
thing, however we may choose to interpret it, is the "endless give and
take" between the clear concept and the cogent conclusion on the one
hand, and the new fact and the handling of its variability on the other.
Now, so soon as we have performed the miracle of knowing what we
cannot know, namely the existence of the ideological bias in ourselves
and others, we can trace it to a simple source. This source is in the
initial vision of the phenomena we propose to subject to scientific
treatment. For this treatment itself is under objective control in the
sense that it is always possible to establish whether a given statement,
in reference to a given state of knowledge, is provable, refutable, or
neither. Of course this does not exclude honest error or dishonest
faking. It does not exclude delusions of a wide variety of types. But
it does permit the exclusion of that particular kind of delusion which
we call ideology because the test involved is indifferent to any ideology.
The original vision, on the other hand, is under no such control. There,
the elements that will meet the tests of analysis are, by definition,
undistinguishable from those that will not or-as we may also put
it since we admit that ideologies may contain provable truth up to
100 per cent-the original vision is ideology by nature and may contain
any amount of delusions traceable to a man's social location, to the
manner in which he wants to see himself or his class or group and
the opponents of his own class or group. This should be extended even
to peculiarities of his outlook that are related to his personal tastes
and conditions and have no group connotation-there is even an
ideology of the mathematical mind as well as an ideology of the mind
that is allergic to mathematics.
It may be useful to reformulate our problem before we discuss
examples. Since the source of ideology is our pre- and extrascientific
vision of the economic process and of what is-causally or teleologi-
cally-important in it and since normally this vision is then subjected
to scientific treatment, it is being either verified or destroyed by
analysis and in either case should vanish qua ideology. How far, then,
does it fail to disappear as it should? How far does it hold its own
in the face of accumulating adverse evidence? And how far does it vitiate
our analytic procedure itself so that, in the result, we are still left
with knowledge that is impaired by it?


---Economics-1949-0-10.txt---
From tlhe outset it is clear that there is a vast expanse of ground
on which there should be as little danger of ideological vitiation as
there is in physics. A time series of gross investment in manufacturing
industry may be good or bad, but whether it is the one or the other is,
normally, open to anyone to find out. The Walrasian system as it
stands may or may not admit of a unique set of solutions but whether
it does or not is a matter of exact proof that every qualified person
can repeat. Questions like these may not be the most fascinating or
practically most urgent ones but they constitute the bulk of what is
specifically scientific in our work. And they are in logic although
not always in fact neutral to ideology. Moreover, their sphere widens
as our understanding of analytic work improves. Time was when
economists thought that they were gaining or losing a point for labor
if they fought for the labor-quantity and against the marginal-utility
theory of value. It can be shown that, so far as ideologically relevant
issues are concerned, this makes as little difference as did the replace-
ment of the latter by the indifference-curve approach or the replace-
ment of the indifference curves by a simple consistency postulate
(Samuelson). I dare say that there are still some who find something
incongruous to their vision in marginal-productivity analysis. Yet it
can be shown that the latter's purely formal apparatus is compatible
with any vision of economic reality that anyone ever had.4
IV
Let us now look for ideological elements in three of the most influen-
tial structures of economic thought, the works of Adam Smith, of
Marx, and of Keynes.
In Adam Smith's case the interesting thing is not indeed the absence
but the harmlessness of ideological bias. I am not referring to his
time- and country-bound practical wisdom about laissez-faire, free
trade, colonies and the like for-it cannot be repeated too often-a
man's political preferences and recommendations as such are entirely
beyond the range of my remarks or rather they enter this range only
so far as the factual and theoretical analysis does that is presented in
support of them. I am exclusively referring to this analytical work


---Economics-1949-0-11.txt---
itself-only to his indicatives, not to his imperatives. This being under-
stood, the first question that arises is what kind of ideology we are
to attribute to him. Proceeding on the Marxist principle we shall look
to his social location, that is, to his personal and ancestral class
affiliations and in addition to the class connotation of the influences
that may have formed or may have helped to form what we have
called his vision. He was a homo academicus who became a civil
servant. His people were more or less of a similar type: his family, not
penniless but neither wealthy, kept up some standard of education
and fell in with a well-known group in the Scotland of his day. Above
all it did not belong to the business class. His general outlook on
things social and economic reproduced these data to perfection. He
beheld the economic process of his time with a cold critical eye and
instinctively looked for mechanical rather than personal factors of
explanation-such as division of labor. His attitude to the land-owning
and to the capitalist classes was the attitude of the observer from outside
and he made it pretty clear that he considered the landlord (the "sloth-
ful" landlord who reaps where he has not sown) as an unnecessary,
and the capitalist (who hires "industrious people" and provides them
with subsistence, raw materials, and tools) as a necessary evil. The
latter necessity was rooted in the virtue of parsimony, eulogy of which
evidently came from the bottom of his Scottish soul. Apart from this,
his sympathies went wholly to the laborer who "clothes everybody
and himself goes in rags." Add to this the disgust he felt-like all
the people in his group-at the inefficiency of the English bureaucracy
and at the corruption of the politicians and you have practically all
of his ideological vision. While I cannot stay to show how much this
explains of the picture he drew, I must emphasize that the other
component of this vision, the natural-law philosophy that he imbibed
in his formative years, the product of similarly conditioned men, in-
fluenced the ideological background from which he wrote in a similar
manner-natural freedom of action, the workman's natural right to
the whole product of industry, individualistic rationalism and so on,
all this was taught to him ere his critical faculties were developed
but there was hardly need to teach him these things for they came
"naturally" to him in the air he breathed. But-and this is the really
interesting point-all this ideology, however strongly held, really
did not much harm to his scientific achievement. Unless we go to him
for economic sociology,5 we receive from him sound factual and analytic
teaching that no doubt carries date but is not open to objection on the
score of ideological bias. There is some semiphilosophical foliage of


---Economics-1949-0-12.txt---
an ideological nature but it can be removed without injury to his
scientific argument. The analysis that supports his qualified free-trade
conclusions is not-as it was with some contemporaneous philosophers,
such as Morellet-based upon the proposition that by nature a man
is free to buy or to sell where he pleases. The statement that the
(whole) produce is the natural compensation of labor occurs, but no
analytic use is made of it-everywhere the ideology spends itself in
phraseology and for the rest recedes before scientific research. In part
at least, this was the merit of the man: he was nothing if not respon-
sible; and his sober and perhaps somewhat dry common sense gave
him respect for facts and logic. In part it was good fortune: it matters
little if his analysis has to be given up as the psychology it was meant
to be if at the same time it must be retained as a logical schema of
economic behavior-on closer acquaintance, the homo economicus (so
far as Adam Smith, the author of the Moral Sentiments, can in fact
be credited or debited with this conception at all) turns out to be a
very harmless man of straw.
Marx was the economist who discovered ideology for us and who
understood its nature. Fifty years before Freud, this was a perform-
ance of the first order. But, strange to relate, he was entirely blind to
its dangers so far as he himself was concerned. Only other people, the
bourgeois economists and the utopian socialists, were victims of
ideology. At the same time, the ideological character of his premises
and the ideological bias of his argument are everywhere obvious. Even
some of his followers (Mehring, for instance) recognized this. And
it is not difficult to describe his ideology. He was a bourgeois radical
who had broken away from bourgeois radicalism. He was formed by
German philosophy and did not feel himself to be a professional
economist until the end of the 1840's. But by that time, that is to say,
before his serious analytic work had begun, his vision of the capitalist
process had become set and his scientific work was to implement, not
to correct it. It was not original with him. It pervaded the radical
circles of Paris and may be traced back to a number of 18th century
writers, such as Linguet.6 History conceived as the struggle between
classes that are defined as haves and havenots, with exploitation of the
one by the other, ever increasing wealth among ever fewer haves and
ever increasing misery and degradation among the havenots, moving
with inexorable necessity toward spectacular explosion, this was the
vision then conceived with passionate energy and to be worked up,
like a raw material is being worked up, by means of the scientific
tools of his time. This vision implies a number of statements that will

---Economics-1949-0-13.txt---
not stand the test of analytic controls. And, in fact, as his analytic
work matured, Marx not only elaborated many pieces of scientific
analysis that were neutral to that vision but also some that did not
agree with it well-for instance, he got over the kind of underconsump-
tion and the kind of overproduction theories of crises which he seems
to have accepted at first and traces of which-to puzzle interpreters-
remained in his writings throughout. Other results of his analysis he
introduced by means of the device of retaining the original-ideo-
logical-statement as an "absolute" (i.e., abstract) law while admitting
the existence of counteracting forces which accounted for deviating
phenomena in real life. Some parts of the vision, finally, took refuge
in vituperative phraseology that does not affect the scientific elements
in an argument. For instance, whether right or wrong, his exploitation
theory of "surplus" value was a genuine piece of theoretical analysis.
But all the glowing phrases about exploitation could have been at-
tached just as well to other theories, B6hm-Bawerk's among them:
imagine Bohm-Bawerk in Marx's skin, what could have been easier
for him than to pour out the vials of his wrath on the infernal practice
of robbing labor by means of deducting from its product a time
discount?
But some elements of his original vision-in particular the increasing
misery of the masses which was what was to goad them into the final
revolution-that were untenable were at the same time indispensable
for him. They were too closely linked to the innermost meaning of
his message, too deeply rooted in the very meaning of his life, to be
ever discarded. Moreover, they were what appealed to followers and
what called forth their fervent allegiance. It was they which explain
the organizing effect-the party-creating effect-of what without them
would have been stale and lifeless. And so we behold in this case the
victory of ideology over analysis: all the consequences of a vision that
turns into a social creed and thereby renders analysis sterile.
Keynes' vision-the source of all that has been and is more or less
definitely identified as Keynesianism-appeared first in a few thought-
ful paragraphs in the introduction to the Consequences of the Peace
(1920). These paragraphs created modern stagnationism-stagnation-
ist moods had been voiced, at intervals, by many economists before,
from Britannia Languens on (1680)-and indicate its essential fea-
tures, the features of mature and arteriosclerotic capitalist society that
tries to save more than its declining opportunities for investment can
absorb. This vision never vanished again-we get another glimpse of
it in the tract on Monetary Reform and elsewhere but, other problems
absorbing Keynes' attention during the 1920's, it was not implemented
analytically until much later. D. H. Robertson in his Banking Policy


---Economics-1949-0-14.txt---
and the Price Level presented some work that amounted to partial
implementation of the idea of abortive saving. But with Keynes this
idea remained a side issue even in the Treatise on Money. Perhaps
it was the shock imparted by the world crisis which definitely broke
the bonds that prevented him from fully verbalizing himself. Certainly
it was the shock imparted by the world crisis which created the public
for a message of this kind.
Again it was the ideology-the vision of decaying capitalism that
located (saw) the cause of the decay in one out of a large number of
features of latter-day society-which appealed and won the day,
and not the analytic implementation by the book of 1936 which, by
itself and without the protection it found in the wide appeal of the
ideology, would have suffered much more from the criticisms that were
directed against it almost at once. Still, the conceptual apparatus was
the work not only of a brilliant but also of a mature mind-of
a Marshallian who was one of the three men who had shared the sage's
mantle between them. Throughout the 1920's Keynes was and felt
himself to be a Marshallian and even though he later on renounced
his allegiance dramatically, he never deviated from the Marshallian
line more than was strictly necessary in order to make his point.
He continued to be what he had become by 1914, a master of the
theorist's craft, and he was thus able to provide his vision with an
armour that prevented many of his followers from seeing the ideo-
logical element at all. Of course this now expedites the absorption of
Keynes' contribution into the current stream of analytic work. There
are no really new principles to absorb. The ideology of underemploy-
ment equilibrium and of non-spending which is a better term to
use than saving-is readily seen to be embodied in a few restrictive
assumptions that emphasize certain (real or supposed) facts. With these
everyone can deal as he thinks fit and for the rest he can continue his
way. This reduces Keynesian controversies to the level of technical
science. Lacking institutional support, the "creed" has petered out
with the situation that had made it convincing. Even the most stalwart
McCullochs of our day are bound to drift into one of those positions
of which it is hard to say whether they involve renunciation, reinter-
pretation, or misunderstanding of the original message.
V
Our examples might suggest that analytically uncontrolled ideas
play their role exclusively in the realm of those broad conceptions of
the economic process as a whole that constitute the background from
which analytic effort sets out and of which we never succeed in fully
mastering more than segments. This is of course true to some extent-


---Economics-1949-0-15.txt---
the bulk of our research work deals with particulars that give less
scope to mere vision and are more strictly controlled by objective tests-
but not wholly so. Take, for instance, the theory of saving which does
appear in a wider context in the Keynesian system but might also,
factually and theoretically, be treated by itself. From the time of
Turgot and Smith-in fact from still earlier times-to the time of
Keynes all the major propositions about its nature and effects have,
by slow accretion, been assembled so that, in the light of the richer
supply of facts we command today, there should be little room left
for difference of opinion. It should be easy to draw up a summarizing
(though perhaps not very exciting) analysis that the large majority of
professional economists might accept as a matter of course. But there
is, and always has been, eulogistic or vituperative preaching on the
subject that, assisted by terminological tricks such as the confusion
between saving and nonspending, has succeeded in producing a sham
antagonism between the writers on the subject. Much emphasized dif-
ferences in doctrine for which there is no factual or analytical basis
always indicate, though in themselves they do not prove, the presence
of ideological bias on one side or on both-which in this case hails
from two different attitudes to the bourgeois scheme of life.
Another instance of sectional ideology of this kind is afforded by
the attitude of many, if not most economists, toward anything in any
way connected with monopoly (oligopoly) and cooperative price set-
ting (collusion). This attitude has not changed since Aristotle and
Molina although it has acquired a partially new meaning under the
conditions of modern industry. Now as then, a majority of economists
would subscribe to Molina's dictum: monopoliuim est injustum et rei
publicae injuriosum. But it is not this value judgment which is rele-
vant to my argument-one may dislike modern largest-scale business
exactly as one may dislike many other features of modern civilization
-but the analysis that leads up to it and the ideological influence
that this analysis displays. Anyone who has read Marshall's Principles,
still more anyone who has also read his Industry and Trade, should
know that among the innumerable patterns that are covered by those
terms there are many of which benefit and not injury to economic
efficiency and the consumers' interest ought to be predicated. More
modern analysis permits to show still more clearly that no sweeping
or unqualified statement can be true for all of them; and that the
mere facts of size, single-sellership, discrimination, and cooperative
price setting are in themselves inadequate for asserting that the
resulting performance is, in any relevant sense of the word, inferior
to the one which could be expected under pure competition in condi-
tions attainable under pure competition-in other words, that economic


---Economics-1949-0-16.txt---
analysis offers no material in support of indiscriminate "trust busting"
and that such material must be looked for in the particular circum-
stances of each individual case. Nevertheless, many economists support
such indiscriminate "trust busting" and the interesting point is that
enthusiastic sponsors of the private-enterprise system are particularly
prominent among them. Theirs is the ideology of a capitalist economy
that would fill its social functions admirably by virtue of the magic
wand of pure competition were it not for the monster of monopoly or
oligopoly that casts a shadow on an otherwise bright scene. No argu-
ment avails about the performance of largest-scale business, about
the inevitability of its emergence, about the social costs involved in
destroying existing structures, about the futility of the hallowed ideal
of pure competition- or in fact ever elicits any response other than
most obviously sincere indignation.
Even as thus extended, our examples, wlhile illustrating well enough
what ideology is, are quite inadequate to give us an idea of the range of
its influence. The influence shows nowhere more strongly than in
economic history which displays the traces of ideological premises so
clearly, precisely because they are rarely formulated in so many words,
hence rarely challenged-the subject of the role that is to be attributed
in economic development to the initiative of governments, policies,
and politics affords an excellent instance: groupwise, economic his-
torians have systematically over- or understated the importance of this
initiative in a manner that points unequivocally to prescientific con-
victions. Even statistical inference loses the objectivity that should in
good logic characterize it whenever ideologically relevant issues are
at stake.7 And some of the sociological, psychological, anthropological,
biological waters that wash our shores are so vitiated by ideological
bias that, beholding the state of things in parts of those fields, the
economist might sometimes derive solace from comparison. Had we
time, we could everywhere observe the same phenomenon: that ideolo-
gies crystallize, that they become creeds which for the time being are
impervious to argument; that they find defenders whose very souls
go into the fight for them.
There is little comfort in postulating, as has been done sometimes,
the existence of detached minds that are immune to i-deological bias
and ex hypothesi able to overcome it. Such minds may actually exist

---Economics-1949-0-17.txt---
and it is in fact easy to see that certain social groups are further
removed than are others from those ranges of social life in which
ideologies acquire additional vigor in economic or political conflict. But
though they may be relatively free from the ideologies of the prac-
titioners, they develop not less distorting ideologies of their own. There
is more comfort in the observation that no economic ideology lasts
forever and that, with a likelihood that approximates certainty, we
eventually grow out of each. This follows not only from the fact that
social patterns change and that hence every economic ideology is bound
to wither but also from the relation that ideology bears to that pre-
scientific cognitive act which we have called vision. Since this act
induces fact finding and analysis and since these tend to destroy what-
ever will not stand their tests, no economic ideology could survive
indefinitely even in a stationary social world. As time wears on and
these tests are being perfected, they do their work more quickly and
more effectively. But this still leaves us with the result that some
ideology will always be with us and so, I feel convinced, it will.
But this is no misfortune. It is pertinent to remember another aspect
of the relation between ideology and vision. That prescientific cognitive
act which is the source of our ideologies is also the prerequisite of our
scientific work. No new departure in any science is possible without
it. Through it we acquire new material for our scientific endeavors
and something to formulate, to defend, to attack. Our stock of facts and
tools grows and rejuvenates itself in the process. And so-though we
proceed slowly because of our ideologies, we might not proceed at all
without them.


---Economics-1950-0-03.txt---
The proposition to which I should like to draw attention is not novel.
But in these days of physical planning and social priorities, it may not
be amiss to recall something ancient, if it is something relevant. And
that is that economic analysis rests fundamentally upon individual
choice; and where the individual cannot choose, economics does not
exist. Economics is concerned with the application of scarce resources to
unlimited wants. Costs, utility or indifference calculations, saving and
consuming, investing and hoarding, altering productive proportions,
introducing new combinations-in all the manifold aspects of the eco-
nomic problem, the key phenomenon is choice.
Choices in these matters can be made collectively. But there is cer-
tainly a narrower and very significant sense in which choice is only in-
dividual; and it is this kind of choice which economics, in contrast to
ethics and politics, takes for its subject matter. A moral law, enforced
by public censure or approval, limits the choice of individuals. A politi-
cal decision or law, even in a democracy except in the rare case of
unanimity, also limits individual choice. But an economic generalization
describes individual choice and its results. This does not mean that there
should be neither moral nor political law; it merely asserts the contrast
between moral and political on the one hand and economic on the other.
To the determinist in general or in social philosophy, a contrast based
on free will would, of course, be inadmissible. But I am content to speak
in commonsense terms. There is significance-and indeed very deep
significance-in the statement that the moral injunction to speak the
truth limits the freedom of the individual to say whatever he chooses,
even though he voluntarily accepts the principle as categoric. In political
matters a tax law, though resting upon free political choice in a parlia-


---Economics-1950-0-04.txt---
mentary state, abridges the freedom of the individual to spend his
money as he chooses. Economic laws do not abridge but rather describe
the choice of individuals and the outgrowth of these choices in market
phenomena.
This same contrast appears when we shift our viewpoint from a
generic to a quantitative basis. Even when ethical or political law
indicates a direction of choice which the individual would elect if left
to his own free choice, it cannot in the nature of the case result in the
same quantitative solution, except quite by accident. Thus a moral
code may impose temperance in the consumption of alcoholic drinks;
but the individual's acceptance of the principle does not give any
precise quantitative solution. A public spirited person may vote for a
social security program, recognize that it must be supported by taxa-
tion, and yet try to avoid paying a larger sum in personal income tax
than necessary. Generally speaking, the expression of choice through
the ballot, whether at the popular or parliamentary level, becomes less
and less comfortable to the free choice of each individual, the larger
the group to which the measure is applied. Political decisions, by their
very nature, involve choices made for groups, and are thus at best
approximations of what and how much the individuals would choose.
Economic decisions are, on the other hand, marginal-that is, they
conform to "the little more, the little less."
"The little more, the little less" lies at the heart of economic thinking
-in the analysis of income allocation, of costs of production, of outlays
on advertising and other selling devices, of spending vs. saving, of in-
vesting vs. hoarding money, and the like. But the "little more and the
little less" has, practically speaking, to be a matter of individual de-
cision, since decisions on a moral or political basis almost certainly
involve, by comparison to individual budgets, very gross magnitudes.
Economics is thus individualistic in a profound sense.
Most wants, beyond some very primitive physical urges, are "social
wants" in the sense of their being imbued with the tastes, morals, and
customs of the surrounding society. But the subject of these wants
is still the individual. The same is true of "collective wants," that is,
wants which either can (practically) be satisfied only by processes
which result in the production of the good or service for a number of
people, or which require a number of participants in the enjoyment of
the product. The subject of the want is still the individual. Economic
guidance of production for wants of these characters still requires a
free-market expression of preferences.'


---Economics-1950-0-05.txt---
Is this just a peculiar form of words, which I propose? Could not
most of the decisions which I have labelled political and ethical, as well
as those more narrow economic choices, be embraced under a broader
and more flexible concept of things economic? Such an alternative
set of definitions would, indeed, be possible. But it would still be neces-
sary to give a distinctive designation to the study of free individual
choice in matters of production, a freedom which, as I have emphasized,
differs qualitatively and quantitatively from moral and political choices.
Thus the competing terminology would come out with the same sub-
stantive distinctions as my own, which has the decided advantage of
conforming to common understanding.
In describing economics as concerned with the processes and results
of individual free choice on the market, I differ significantly from the
description given by Lionel Robbins that economics deals with the
application of scarce resources to given ends.2 Robbins' description
would, for example, include the analysis of productive effort to serve
the ends given arbitrarily-and let us say for present purposes, whimsi-
cally and sadistically-by an absolute dictator. But this is not econom-
ics. What makes resources "scarce"? And what determines their
"4economic" application, if it is not the attitudes of individuals toward
supplying their services, and their own evaluations of products aside
from and independently of the dictates of authority, whether that
authority be "duly constituted" or not. Alternatively, one may express
the same idea by saying that Robbins' definition errs in accepting any
and all "given ends"; one end must be stipulated by economics itself,
and that is the freedom of the individual to make the best of his situa-
tion as a producer or consumer, so far as this does not entail greater
loss of freedom upon other inidividuals.
The individualistic predilection of economics does not, however, com-
mit economists to a laissez-faire, Manchestrian, or "reactionary" posi-
tion. Some decisions concerning economic problems have to be political,
for no one except an anarchist could deny that perfect freedom of
individual choice occasionally leads to results unacceptable to the com-
munity. Economists may thus range from extensive interventionists to
"hard boiled" liberals, according as they think these occasions to be
numerous or few. There are indeed strong grounds for supposing that
the occasions might be quite numerous merely for one reason alone
that free individual choice is quite as likely to take the direction of an
effort to monopolize as to compete.
An individual or firm possessed of monopoly power does not always
press this advantage to the maximum, indeed frequently does not press


---Economics-1950-0-06.txt---
it very far. But if the monopolist "acts like a monopolist" and his
monopoly pertains to an important commodity or service, there usually
ensues a political decision which suppresses this individual's free choice.
It is significant for the validity of my thesis, however, that this decision
characteristically takes the form of attempting to supplant the monopoly
by competition, or of attempting to regulate the monopoly and to simu-
late competitive results. In either event the aim is to restore results
similar to those which would appear on the market from the free choice
of individuals, except for the offending monopolist.
Economics has successfully described the outcome of competitive
market situations where individual choice is free. Its success in analyzing
various hues of monopoly varies in about an inverse proportion as
monopoly elements grow and free choice dwindles. Thus simple mo-
nopoly, with freedom as to price or amount purchased on the demand
side, yields a definite solution. Two-sided monopoly with each mo-
nopolist having the power to dictate price but not quantity yields a
determinate solution of quantity but the division of the price is inde-
terminate. Between these extremes and competition are intermediate
cases where not one but several producers dominate the market; and
for these cases, theoretical economics is able to state only zones or
areas of probable solutions on various suppositions as to the freedom of
choice of the individual firms. Efforts to press the frontier of economic
analysis farther into this territory are, of course, welcome and neces-
sary. But as we pass gradually from situations in which economic ac-
tivity is guided by individual free choice toward more (uncontrolled)
monopoly and toward more political choice, the substance of economics
comes to be more and more prescinded and more tentative. At the
limit, where all economic activity is controlled by the state and all
decisions are political, economics expires and the economist is put out to
grass. He no longer has any criteria of income allocation, costs, money
holdings, savings, foreign trade, etc., which he could use to test the
arbitrary decisions of the authority. If asked to appraise the efficiency
of the controlled economy, he would have to ask for the restoration of
free choice in one or many fields, in order to permit him to see how
matters actually stand. Thus there undoubtedly is such a thing as a
government economist, but only by virtue of the fact that enough deci-
sions are made outside the government to permit government decisions
to be tested by economic criteria.
The thesis which I maintain can now be briefly restated. Economics
studies the application of limited resources to wants which are less
limited. The limitation of resources reveals itself in costs; and at bottom
all costs excepting natural resources are human, that is, they are costs
to individual beings. At bottom, also, unsatisfied wants are the wants of


---Economics-1950-0-07.txt---
individual beings. Only to the degree that these costs and utilities to
individuals can express themselves in the market can economic analysis
exist. To the degree that political or ethical norms rule the market, to
the same degree does the possibility of applying economic criteria recede
or vanish.
II
I propose to test the validity of this proposition by reference to four
concepts of maximum or optimum solutions to be found in current
economics. To the economic way of thinking, "optimum" implies or
should imply the best application of limited resources to our less limited,
i.e., practically unlimited, wants. Of course this central problem takes
many aspects or dimensions; and consequently economic analysis is not
constrained to state just one optimum. The four concepts chosen for
purposes of the argument illlustrate different dimensions of the economic
problem; but they also illustrate the central theorem that where politics
and ethics come in by the window, economics goes out by the door.
Let us begin with one of the oldest-and currently one of the most
maligned-of these optima, the so-called "doctrine of maximum satis-
faction." In non-technical language this principle states that, if left
to their free choices, both consumers and producers will so allocate
expenditure that the return in any one line of outlay, either in direct
satisfaction from the good or in expected product, will not be less than
could be obtained from any other line of expenditure. Thus total satis-
faction is a maximum, being a maximum for each individual. All
economists state this principle with certain qualifications, and some
economists regard the qualifications to be so extensive as to leave
nothing of the original proposition. Those who would go so far would,
I believe, be forced to conclude also that the aggregate of individuals
accomplishes nothing in the effort toward a rational disposition of
their limited resources toward satisfying wants, i.e., we are unable to
economize, and economics is nothing.
But this is a vast overstatement. Monopoly qualifies the principle, or
more accurately limits its inclusiveness, for free choice is stipulated
within the principle itself and monopoly abridges free exchange. But
we are very far indeed from universal monopoly. Inequality of wealth
and income also qualifies the principle but in a much less extensive
fashion than commonly supposed. For to the degree that inequality
is functional, that is, to the degree to which it is necessary to pay one
man more than another to evoke his services, the national income or
aggregate of satisfactions to be divided out is increased over what it
would be with equal incomes. Unearned income from inherited wealth
or from illegal or sharp practices thus qualifies the maximizing of
product and satisfactions. Anyone may make his own guess as to how


---Economics-1950-0-08.txt---
large a fraction of personal income in the United States, at the present
level of $211 billions, is unearned. The facts that 82%o of this total is
embraced under wages, salaries and proprietorship incomes, and that
certainly not all the remainder (in pure property income) can be
regarded as unearned, may afford a cue to the answer. Finally, the
principle has to be qualified for consumer caprice, habit, ignorance, and
other impairments of rational behavior. Let me, however, recall the
familiar lines of Wordsworth:
The world is too much with us; late and soon,
Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers.
In other words, we are typically far too much preoccupied with realiz-
ing the principle of maximum satisfaction; and it would indeed be sur-
prising if we did not in large measure accomplish our intent.
In fine, then, maximum satisfaction encounters the barriers of con-
sumer ignorance and irrationality, unearned income, and monopoly.
The materialism of our present age with its remorseless urge toward
higher standards of physical well-being and comfort does not seem to
connote either caprice or inertia on the part of consumers. Unearned
income seems to be ubiquitous; but it is a familiar story that the largest
part of the national income accrues to the poor and to the moderately
well-to-do, and not all income accruing even to the rich is unearned.
Finally, monopoly and monopoly factors permeate nearly all production,
but these elements have a visibility much more marked than the hum-
drum homogeneity of competition. I offer no apology for the wastes
and abuses of our present economic society. But the ardor with which
the American public threw off the constraints imposed by wartime price
controls, rationing, and allocations would seem to indicate that consumer
and producer free choice means something valuable. Consequently the
principle of maximum satisfaction-for all its existing lets and hind-
rances-still embodies a truth worth the telling.
The concepts of economic optimum which follow are inferior to
maximum satisfaction, if we employ as a criterion the effectiveness with
which a society applies its limited resources to its wants; and no alterna-
tive economic criterion presents itself. In the "second best" position I
would present the idea of "appropriate fluctuations of output," in the
words of that most eminent English economist, D. H. Robertson.3
Underlying this idea is the conviction, common to nearly all economists,
that the alternation of good and bad times is intimately associated with
waves of technical innovation and the episodic stimulation of new
investment. The process of purely scientific discovery probably goes on


---Economics-1950-0-09.txt---
at a fairly uniform rate; but the effective application of pure science
to practical and marketable products and the active creation and
exploiting of new markets in a private enterprise economy, as Schumpe-
ter has shown, awaits the discerning business venturer. Thereafter, the
perfecters and imitators crowd in, this particular market is gradually
pressed to the replacement demand stage, and the strong stimulus to
new investment ebbs away.
In a best of all possible worlds it might be possible to achieve com-
plete stability of production and a maximum rate of technical progress
at the same time. But if we take into account business optimism engen-
dered by the advent of some notable technological innovation such as,
for example, the automobile, and the spread of this stimulus to bankers,
family budget-makers, security traders, builders, exporters and im-
porters, and even to government spending authorities, we would not
be surprised to find the expansion running off into overly-full employ-
ment, inflation, bottlenecks, and wrong estimates, resulting in short-
ages in some sectors and overproduction elsewhere. So powerful are
these disequilibrating forces that to control them completely might
involve an intolerable degree of regimentation and might even stifle
the impulses toward economic progress. Consequently, we will probably
strike a compromise between continuous full employment and the most
rapid rate of progress by accepting some fluctuations, while striving
to keep them from developing into feverish speculative booms, followed
by disastrous and protracted periods of unemployment.
The concept of appropriate fluctuations may be regarded from the
angle of individual free choice. The history of business fluctuations
demonstrates that giving completely free rein to private decisions to
spend and invest will result in an intolerable degree of instability.
Marxians and contemporary communists confidently believe that
capitalism will one day be swept away in a catastrophic depression:
the only cure of instability is the totalitarian state. But this has not
been the diagnosis and prognosis of economics. Instability in the be-
havior of general aggregates such as the price level, spending, invest-
ment, and employment can be governed by similarly general measures-
monetary policy, fiscal policy, wage policy, and the like. Keynesian and
traditional economists alike reject the necessity of the piecemeal regula-
tion of business, industries, and occupations. Free choice is indeed
abridged by fiscal, monetary, and wage policy, but in impersonal and
nondiscriminatory ways. Thus in a quite understandable sense-since
unemployment and stagnant markets can scarcely be regarded as
things which anyone would freely elect-the policies designed to reduce
fluctuations to a tolerable or "appropriate" amplitude are also policies
maximizing the field of free choice over the long run.


---Economics-1950-0-10.txt---
The two optima thus far reviewed are primarily economic in content:
they represent situations without particular moral or political flavor
which, in significant senses, result mainly from individual choice. In
these cases the interference of the state has for its purpose the widen-
ing or extending of the field of individual choice, and not "ulterior"
ends. Alternatively, it might be said that with respect to these two
optima the political choices have for their aim the improved operation of
individual economic choice. These characteristics fade away pro-
gressively as we proceed to two further concepts of optimum.
I refer first to the "optimum propensity to save," a magnitude im-
plicit in the Keynesian general equilibrium theory, first made explicit by
Oscar Lange.4 The idea of an optimum amount of saving is a part of the
theory which attributes cyclical depression or longer-run stagnation to
over-saving. Optimum saving is that amount which is compatible with
full employment without inflation: more saving would spell a relapse
from full employment, and less saving would spell inflation.5
From the interested angle of the present argument, the peculiarity of
this optimum is that it runs directly counter to individual free choice. I
do not make an appeal to some mysterious "natural law" or invisible
hand; I merely assert that with human beings as they are, some of them
spendthrift and some of them frugal, Western civilization generally
reveals-aside from wars and other disasters-a tendency toward net
accumulation. With the very rich, it may appear simply as a residuum
after all consumption demands are satisfied. With some persons, again
more frequently found amongst the rich or quite well-to-do, it may arise
from the desire to grow wealthy or more wealthy for purposes of dis-
play, controlling other people's lives, or playing the game with higher
stakes. But again, as in an earlier context, we encounter the fact that
not only is most of the national income received by the moderately and
the less well-to-do, but also that these income classes account for the
largest part of savings. With them the motives thus far mentioned are
exceptional and the one overwhelmingly important purpose is provision
for the future.
Now an economic optimum which runs in terms of limiting this
activity is indeed a paradoxical kind of optimum. Providing security
against the rainy day and old age from the fruits of one's own produc-
tive activity may be an old-fashioned virtue, but it nevertheless pro-
vides substantial net social saving. This does not imply opposition to

---Economics-1950-0-11.txt---
"social security" measures; but these measures should supplement and
not supplant individual self-reliance. Amongst the several major vari-
ables which combine to produce downturns in economic activity or to
protract depression, we can surely select more promising channels of
public policy than influencing saving. In the first place, even the pro-
ponents of the over-saving thesis regard the growth of capital equip-
ment as an earmark of economic progress; and hence consistency would
demand primary emphasis upon inducing private investment sufficient
to absorb savings, or supplementing this with public investment if need
be-but in no event limiting saving. Secondly, saving rests upon in-
grained habit or long-standing business mores and cannot readily be
adjusted to short-term variations. But thirdly, when alternatives exist
which do not abridge individual choice, and when their effectiveness is
not less, they are clearly preferable.
Monetary and fiscal policies to stablize economic activity are actually
more effective because they operate quickly; and they do not abridge
individual choice in the direct and objectionable fashion of policies to
limit saving. Monetary policy consists directly of influencing the quan-
tity of money and hence indirectly the rate of spending. Fiscal policy
consists directly of influencing the rate of spending through the power-
ful government sector, and indirectly the quantity of money. Individual
economic choice does not, except in a minor way and need not at all, in-
fluence the quantity of money; and individual economic choice does not
determine government revenue and expenditure. Hence, in policies to
achieve economic stability through Federal Reserve and Treasury opera-
tions, we are not significantly abridging the choices which the eco-
nomic agents-individuals, businesses, state and local governments-
regard as matters for their own disposition. Economic activity under
private enterprise in a progressive economy is not self-stabilizing and it
requires political decisions to bring about an even evolution. But
amongst eligible alternatives there is no apology for making the politi-
cal decision gratuitously abridge individual free choice. The "optimum
propensity to save" does precisely this.
The fourth optimum to be considered is the notion of an "optimum
rate of (foreign) exchange," first promulgated, so far as I know, by Mrs.
Robinson.6 The idea is advanced rather incidentally and I do not pro-
pose to give it more than illustrative significance. Furthermore, this rate,
defined as the one which-wage rates and other underlying factors being
given-causes the favorable balance of trade to be a maximum, is ex-
plicitly said "by no means necessarily [to be] the most desirable rate
from every point of view." Thus it may involve lower real income per

---Economics-1950-0-12.txt---
unit of output than a somewhat higher rate of exchange. But there still
remains the implication that, in some significant sense, a maximum fa-
vorable balance of trade and its accompanying exchange rate are
optimal. What is this sense?
There are indeed many possibilities, but the one most characteristic
of formal Keynesian theory would involve the multiplier effect from the
stimulus to effective domestic demand proceeding from a favorable
balance of trade. If this correctly interprets the concept, as I cannot un-
fortunately be sure, an optimum rate of exchange signifies-conforma-
bly to this system of thought-the maximum gain in domestic employ-
ment to be had at the expense of employment in other countries. In
another essay Mrs. Robinson eloquently describes this as a "beggar-my-
neighbor" policy.7 Thus the optimum includes only the citizens of the
favored country and reduces the field of free choice and the maximizing
of want satisfaction in other countries. If such an exchange rate is per-
petuated by authoritarian controls, the policy is clearly a political choice
at the expense of free individual choice for the foreigners. There can be
little doubt-whatever the intent of the author of this theoretical con-
cept-that substantially this course has been actively advocated by
Balogh, Schumacher, and kindred spirits.8
III
I have maintained the thesis that the central economic problem is the
application of scarce means to unlimited wants; that scarcity resolves
itself principally into cost to individuals and the uncovered demand
resolves itself ultimately into the unsatisfied wants of individuals; and
finally, that the basic economic process is thus a weighing of costs to
individuals and of utilities or satisfactions to individuals. These propo-
sitions do not, on the one hand, give results which are merely semantic
or definitional, because they are set together of a straight-forward logi-
cal sequence. On the other hand, the propositions merely distinguish
economic choices from those arrived at on ethical, social, or political
grounds, without prejudice to any of these.
What useful inferences, then, can possibly be drawn from such in-
nocuous analysis? The review of economic or quasi-economic maxima
illustrates one point with what I believe to be sufficient clarity: the ease
with which it is possible to pass by small gradations from economic
maxima reflecting the free choice of individuals in market decisions,
to maxima more or less heavily imbued with political or ethical judg-

---Economics-1950-0-13.txt---
ments, without serving notice upon the intellectual consumer of these
maxima. Because the concepts of maximum or optimum in the economic
literature of the "scientific period" since Adam Smith dealt with free
market decisions, and because economists and the public have become
thoroughly habituated to this connotation, the danger is great that the
newer concepts will be accepted with an unawareness of their ulterior
meanings. Thus Sir William Beveridge's "social priorities" really in-
volve political and authoritarian ethical decisions, though the reader is
not warned of this fact and the "free society" part of the title of his
book9 would rather strongly suggest free individual choice.
The central emphasis of my reasoning, however, has not been put
upon this more or less ideological pitfall but upon real events. The body
of economic analysis has been built up upon the ultimate facts of scar-
city, cost, and the satisfaction of human wants, and cost and utility do
not reveal themselves except in the choices of individual persons. The
larger the group for whom the choice is made vicariously by moral or
political authority, the greater is the probable divergence of these
vicarious choices from what the people would themselves have elected,
which generally goes under the caption of "marginalism" in theoretical
terms.
No society can be operated merely on the basis of free individual
choice in the markets, for there are conspicuous cases, such as monopoly,
cyclical variations, ignorance, perverted tastes, fraud, incapacity to pro-
duce enough for a living, and many more, requiring political interven-
tion. As populations increase and techniques become more involved,
necessary controls seem to become more numerous. And yet this does not
and cannot deny that man, and indeed individual man, remains the
measure of all things: wants are personal and effort is personal. Is it not
profoundly significant that the authors of the outstanding and pioneer-
ing work On the Economic Theory of Socialism, the one, Professor F.
M. Taylor, a staunch liberal, and the other Oscar Lange, a socialist,
have based the entire structure upon consumer free choice of expendi-
ture and producer free choice of occupation? Lange's socialism con-
sisted essentially of state ownership of productive property and of the
enforcement of freedom of consumer and producer choice. With regard
specifically to any "preference scale imposed by bureaucrats," let it be
noted that it was Lange who wrote: "Such a system would scarcely be
tolerated by any civilized people."'1 I would myself prefer to say more
cautiously that if the preference scale is "imposed by bureaucrats,"
economics has long since been silenced. The only type of socialism


---Economics-1950-0-14.txt---
compatible with the economic way of thinking is a socialism based pre-
ponderately upon individual free choice-of consumption, of occupa-
tion, of other matters expressible upon markets.1'
These reflections apply to what is called "economic planning." In the
first place, "planning" falls victim to the same ambiguity which put in
its appearance with the concepts of optimum. Some planning is, and
some is not, compatible with the maximizing of the field of individual
free choice. Some planning signifies the formation of institutions such
as the International Monetary Fund, which was designed-at least
in some notable respects-to restore free-market processes. Planning in
another sense, such as the agricultural price-parity program, is well
calculated to undermine market processes and make the economy sub-
ject solely to political forces. All too often planning of this variety is
defended as "welfare economics," although it negates economics and
ignores the loss of welfare imposed upon the economy as a whole by the
gain of a special segment. It is impossible to oppose "planning" if it
simply means forethought, consistency, and rational provision for con-
tingencies in public policy; but very often the term simply covers the
growth of political decision at the expense of the economic calculus.
A totalitarian state, or a society dominated by power-blocs of labor,
agriculture, and industry cannot give expression to the economic cal-
culus. Economics is necessarily a matter fundamentally of individual
choice and it is thus necessarily also libertarian and individualistic.
Authoritarian societies will gladly bid farewell to the economic way of
thinking. But not only will personal liberty have taken leave, but also
the processes by which the individual secures from his limited resources
the best satisfaction of his individual wants. It would not be the century
of the common man.

---Economics-1951-0-03.txt---
The more-than-generous words of introduction by the chairman may
suggest or illustrate the underlying theme of my remarks to follow-
the conflict of values. Needless to say, the value qualities of an intro-
duction lie in the fields of morals and esthetics. No one would think
of applying the category of truth. And as to utility, the "function" of
an introduction seems to be, by a little amiable and gracefully stated
prevarication, to add to the embarrassment of the speaker-if he has
enough modesty or candor in self-appraisal to be subject to embarrass-
ment. I say this, not to return unkindness for kindness, but for the
serious purpose stated, of illustrating what I believe to be a profoundly
important principle in connection with principles; and I wish I had
more time than I shall be able to take, to consider in particular the
conflict between truth and other values, specifically in a liberal ethic
and culture.
Let me add that I am modest and candid enough to be "plenty"
embarrassed already. It is not only my inadequacy to the occasion and
dislike of disappointing an audience such as this. The occasion comes
to me at a time when members of our profession cease, by the usual
official standards, to be useful and are pensioned off-decently and
quietly laid on the shelf. And, standing at this vantage point and sur-
veying the history of our society, of West European civilization and of
the world, during the generation and more in which I, with colleagues
in economics and other branches of what is called social science, have
been diligently "improving" that society and the world, I find little
cause for jubilation or enhancement of self-esteem. And if I turn to


---Economics-1951-0-04.txt---
view the standing of my profession in the world, or that of my special
branch of it, dealing with principles or "theory" in the profession as a
whole, I get no more comfort from what I see. So, I have proposed for
the address which custom demands on this occasion, a bit of general
stock-taking. Such an endeavor is itself reasonably in accord with
custom, if somewhat strange for a "learned society," and I hope it is
a custom not dishonored in the observance. Custom also allows the
speaker, perhaps especially one of the age of this incumbent, to take
a somewhat personal or reminiscent tone, and to verge toward the
character of a sermon rather than that of science or scholarship.
My embarrassment, not only at standing before this audience, but
in all teaching and writing about economic principles, is not new, as
its source is not. I have been increasingly moved to wonder whether
my job is a job or a racket, whether economists, and particularly eco-
nomic theorists, may not be in the position that Cicero, citing Cato,
ascribed to the augurs of Rome-that they should cover their faces
or burst into laughter when they met on the street. Thus, for reasons
which I hope to develop, briefly, my interest has of late tended to shift
from the problems of economic theory, or what seem to be its proper
concerns, to the question of why people so generally, and the learned
elite in particular, as they express themselves in various ways, choose
nonsense instead of sense and shake the dust from their feet at us.
And also, why the theorist is so commonly "in the dog-house" among
economists, as classified by academic faculty lists and books and ar-
ticles in learned journals carrying the word "economic" in their titles.
And I also note that the period of my career as an economist has
been marked by a series of "movements"-I will not say fads-in
economic writing and teaching, consisting largely of attacks on tradi-
tional views of the nature and function of economics, in which the
term "orthodoxy" commonly appears as a "cuss-word," an epithet of
reproach. The critics, aggressors, have more or less explicitly advocated
the abolition of an economics of economic principles and its replace-
ment by almost anything or everything else, other principles if they
can be found-psychological, historical, statistical, political, or ethical,
or no principles at all but factual description of some sector of social-
human phenomena called "economic" for reasons not clear to me. I
cannot comment in detail on these fashions in thinking. The latest
"new economics" and in my opinion rather the worst, for fallacious
doctrine and pernicious consequences, is that launched by the late
John Maynard (Lord) Keynes, who for a decade succeeded in carrying
economic thinking well back to the dark age, but of late this wave of
the future has happily been passing.
This same period of history has also seen a growing disregard for


---Economics-1951-0-05.txt---
free economic institutions in public policy-increasing resort to legis-
lative and bureaucratic interference and control, the growth of pressure
groups employing both political and "direct" action to get what they
want, and with all this the debasement of the state itself, completely
in much of the European world, from free forms to ruthless despotism.
It is surely legitimate to ask whether there is some connection be-
tween the movement of economic thinking and that of political
change.
Now all thinking involves "principles" in some sense, at least the
formation of concepts and fitting of concrete data to concepts through
propositions. Surveying the quality of economic thinking in matters
of policy which seemingly tends to win out, one faces the unpleasant
question whether, if people will not think more or less correctly, it is
good for them to think at all. Perhaps it might be better to go back
to the good old days when men believed and did what they were told
by hoary tradition and constituted authority. For so the great mass
always lived, prior to the advent of our historically unique West
European civilization a couple of centuries ago. Perhaps the "principle"
of authoritarian dictatorship is right after all-or inevitable, which
for practical purposes comes to the same thing-as large groups even
in this country insist and preach. And I do not mean only the Com-
munist Party and its sympathizers; there are others, far more numer-
ous, who are among its most vociferous opponents. For one totalitarian
party will naturally hate another with different leaders and slogans
far worse than they will hate those who stand for freedom.
My doubts and discouragement-for there is no reason to avoid
such words, since I propose here to place truth ahead of other values-
are not new. It has long been my habit to mention to classes the
sinister import of such intellectual phenomena as protectionism in
foreign economnic policy; and the perpetual popular demand for making
capital cheap by manufacturing money; and for creating a demand
for labor by enforcing all sorts of inefficiency, waste and even destruc-
tion. The free-traders, as has been said, win the debates but the pro-
tectionists win the elections; and it makes little difference in our policy
which party wins, the avowed protectionists or the professed free-
traders. Inflation is of course to be brought on as a more pleasant
alternative to taxation, and then suppressed by law and police action.
Try to get people to see that if the value of money has been depreciated
by, say, forty-five per cent, any price, charge, or tax that has not
risen in money terms by over eighty per cent has actually been reduced.
If the rulers of democracy, the demos, will not heed simple arithmetic,
what is the use in talking and writing about problems which really
are problems?--not to mention developing higher mathematical for-


---Economics-1951-0-06.txt---
mulas in which the "given" magnitudes must be largely guessed at.
Why engage in public discussion at all, unless one is content with what
seems to be our role to serve as an antidote to the poison being dis-
seminated by other social scientists, even economists? Is it not insulting
one's own intelligence?
The serious fact is that the bulk of the really important things that
economics has to teach are things that people would see for themselves
if they were willing to see. And it is hard to believe in the utility of
trying to teach what men refuse to learn or even seriously listen to.
What point is there in propagating sound economic principles if the
electorate is set to have the country run on the principle that the ob-
jective in trade is to get rid of as much as possible and get as little
as possible in return?, if they will not see that imports are either paid
for by exports, as a method of producing the imported goods more
efficiently, or else are received for nothing?, or if they hold that
economy consists in having as many workers as possible assigned to a
given task instead of the fewest who are able to perform it? Of late,
I have a new and depressing example of popular economic thinking,
in the policy of arbitrary price-fixing. Can there be any use in ex-
plaining, if it is needful to explain, that fixing a price below the free-
market level will create a shortage and one above it a surplus? But the
public oh's and ah's and yips and yaps at the shortage of residential
housing and surpluses of eggs and potatoes as if these things presented
problems-any more than getting one's footgear soiled by deliberately
walking in the mud. And let me observe that rent freezing for example,
occurs not at all merely because tenants have more votes than land-
lords. It reflects a state of mind, a mode of reasoning, even more dis-
couraging than blindness through self-interest-like protectionism
among our Middle-Western farmers.
One must grant that some critics of rationalistic economics seem to
have something, in their contention that theories based on the assump-
tion that men are reasoning beings run contrary to facts. But, from
the standpoint of policy, the question is, will they be more reasonable
in more sweeping political action, considering that it is absurd govern-
mental policies which lead to the criticism in the first place? However,
one notes that protectionism and "featherbedding" of organized work-
ers, and even monetary inflation are not (not often) carried to the
logical point at which all exchange and specialization through ex-
change would stop, or all accumulated resources be eaten up. Explana-
tion of policy might conceivably get farther if we did take a more
psychological tack and instead of reasoning logically, ask why men
believe and practice nonsense but in general act so much less irra-
tionally than they argue-and what follows from that. Presumably


---Economics-1951-0-07.txt---
our lucubrations must have some relation to the public interest if we
are to expect public support; but why they pay us for it anyway is
one of the deep economic mysteries, one might say another striking
example of popular economic irrationality. However, any politician
can always find an "economist" to endorse any position or policy he
sees fit to advocate, and perhaps this is the proper function of our
"'science" in a democracy.
Let me say here that I feel like apologizing for the negativistic and
even complaining tone of my remarks so far-for there is no trans-
gression more unforgivable than refusing to be "optimistic," and
"constructive." But I started out by mentioning the conflict of values
and especially that between truth and other values, and have said that
on this occasion I propose to give a considerable preference to truth
over other standards. It is an advantage of getting old, which I believe
even Cicero overlooked in his great apology for age. A certain inde-
pendence goes with getting to a point where one will hardly be hunting
a job or running for office or (probably) even courting the ladies. One
mnay then indulge in the luxury of a moderate amount of candor, even
of calling a spade a spade. And unpleasant truth-and truth is likely
to be unpleasant, or we should not place so much stress on optimism-
may be useful, up to a point. I would not carry it too far, but occa-
sionally, and in homeopathic doses, as it were. I am reminded of a
deep philosophical observation made by a high politico in a speech
some years ago, here in Chicago I believe, as reported by T. V. Smith:
"The time has come to take the bull by the tail and look the situation
square in the face." It has occurred to me that one of the interesting
"facts of life" is that the expression itself refers to things so ugly or
unpleasant that they are to be kept out of sight or explicit mention.
If time allowed, I should like to follow this out with some "research"
into the reasons why our professional stock in trade is referred to as
"the dismal science." At any rate, I do wish to stress the importance
of negative conclusions, particularly in relation to action, the advisa-
bility of not doing things that will make matters worse, and the fact
that principles of economics do have in a high degree this unromantic
sort of value. And perhaps this applies to knowledge in general. A
humorist once popular in this country stated my favorite "principle"
in education: "It ain't ignorance that -does the most damage, it's
knowin' so derned much that ain't so."
I also spoke earlier of philosophizing, or preaching, in contrast with
more objective discourse. A sermon should have a text; and I have
found a suitable one in the gospel according to "Saint" the Marquis de
Talleyrand-P&erigord: The only good principle is to have no principles
(le seule bon principe est de n'en avoir aucun). Talleyrand, to be sure,


---Economics-1951-0-08.txt---
is not regularly listed among the evangelists. But he was in fact a
bishop in the Church, and another churchman, of the civilized
eighteenth-century French pattern, the abbot Galiani, had earlier
stated the same creed. And anyhow, the saying suits my purpose as a
text. It is, no doubt, usually enjoyed and dismissed as a witty cynicism;
but I propose to treat it quite seriously, as a starting-point. Not lit-
erally, I admit. It is an epigram; and an epigram has been defined as
a half-truth so stated as to be especially annoying to those who believe
in the other half. I wish to stress both halves, the value of principles as
well as their limitations. Accordingly, I must re-word the text into one
of rather the opposite literal import. The right principle is to respect
all the principles, take them fully into account, and then use good
judgment as to how far to follow one or another in the case in hand.
All principles are false, because all are true-in a sense and to a degree;
hence, none is true in a sense and to a degree which would deny to
others a similarly qualified truth. There is always a principle, plausible
and even sound within limits, to justify any possible course of action
and, of course, the opposite one. The truly right course is a matter
of the best compromise, or the best or "least-worst" combination of
good and evil. As in cookery, and in economic theory, it calls for
enough and not too much, far enough and not too far, in any direction.
Moreover, the ingredients of policy are always imponderable, hence
there can be no principle, no formula, for the best compromise. That
laws must be stated in sentences partly accounts for the familiar
"principle," "the law is an ass." And if people don't have good judg-
ment, or won't use it, it is "just too bad," for themselves and for others
over whom they have power.
* * *
After so much by way of "preliminary," I am at last ready for some
consideration of economic principles. These have, or surely ought to
have, two kinds of significance: in explaining what does happen and
in providing guidance for bringing about what is thought desirable or
what "ought" to happen. In the first role they assimilate to principles of
science; in the second, they raise questions of political principle, since
action must be primarily political, and both economic and political
principles are inseparable from ethics. Political principles are of course
affected by the same ambiguity, they both explain and direct, and this
is also true in a sense of the ethical. The problem is complicated by
the tangled relation between the two concerns, explanation and critical
evaluation; for these also are inseparable, yet are finally contradictory.
A complete explanation shows why an event is inevitable, given the
antecedent circumstances; hence it excludes purposive control. Here


---Economics-1951-0-09.txt---
I propose, after a brief reminder of what the main economic principles
are and what they mean, to consider them in the light of three ques-
tions: their value or usefulness, their limitations, and the possible
alternatives-all with respect to explanation and guidance of action.
I need hardly say that all these topics raise the deepest philosophical
issues, and that only a few general and superficial observations, se-
lected rather arbitrarily or at haphazard, are possible here. But let
me note at once that Talleyrand was referring to moral principles in
connection with political action, and it is with respect to these in par-
ticular that I wish to sound an emphatic warning. The most pernicious
and abominable principle of all, though it has been stated and preached
by the highest authorities, ecclesiastical and lay (from Athanasius to
Kant) is the principle of acting on moral principles-"do, right though
the world perish." That is-as will be found to be true of moral
principles generally-it is false and pernicious if it is taken to mean
anything in particular, anything beyond the best compromise, the best
combination of good and bad, and in both means and ends, where the
problem has the means-end form.
Economic principles are simply the more general implications of the
single principle of freedom, individual and social, i.e., free association,
in a certain sphere of activity. The sphere is that of economizing, i.e.,
conduct in which quantitative means are used to achieve quantitative
ends, or rather provisional ends, goods and services quantitatively
comparable as means to a general end, also quantifiable. But economics
deals only with the apportionment of means among the provisional ends
or the proportioning of these, leaving to engineering and kindred
studies the all-or-none choices among technical processes. The general
end has no good and accepted name; it may be called economic well-
being if it is recognized that both terms require definition. It is simply
the common denominator necessarily implied in comparisons between
uses of means. Acceptance of the principle of freedom makes it super-
fluous to define the end, and the less that is specified about it the better.
The provisionally-final ends, as noted, are the impersonal goods and
services desired and sought, produced and consumed, at any time and
place. However, we must not fail to include additional means or re-
sources, produced with some fraction of those in existence at a given
time; maintenance of these, including all replacements, is of course
part of the production of the flow of consumable things.
The free association in question is exchange, in markets, an instru-
mentality necessary to specialized production, and distribution of the
joint result. The meaning of economics in the traditional or orthodox
sense is the analysis of this system of cooperation in the production
and distribution of impersonal goods. "Competition" has no necessary


---Economics-1951-0-10.txt---
or proper place in the organization and its use to describe the free
choice by each of his cooperators is a linguistic accident calamitous for
understanding. All "personal" association, by contrast, involves power,
and personal values are not subject to exchange. The form of purchase
and sale of friendliness or enmity is viewed as immoral, though there is
much pretense both ways-as in most human relations. Exchange or its
terms may be much influenced by personal considerations (really mixed
with giving) and we actually in large measure exchange dinner-parties,
various presents, etc., as well as disfavors. (One reason why a science
of human behavior, in the literal sense, is impossible is that, in con-
trast with physical objects, our behavior is so saturated with varied
make-believe and deception, not clearly separable from the "realities.")
A special and very important form of exchange occurs when one person
places his economic capacity under the direction of another, on terms
fixed by agreement-the principle of "entrepreneurship." Such direc-
tion is a distinctive service in that it cannot be measured until after
the arrangement is liquidated, hence cannot be treated as a means-of-
production or "capitalized" as can be done with other services, includ-
ing the personal type, as far as contracts can be enforced.
The "perfect" market (mis-called perfectly competitive) is unreal
but conceptually necessary. It is the embodiment of complete freedom.
There are no power relations, since everyone has a choice among a
number of equally good alternatives. The freedom in question centers
in the right of each to be the judge of his own values and of the use of
his own means to achieve them. There is no implication of selfishness
or any other judgment of the moral quality or artistic taste reflected in
any want or act. We usually speak of "individual" freedom, but it
applies to any group acting as a unit. The family, "represented" by its
"head," is the usual minimum unit, and there are other units in un-
limited number and variety. Wants and resources are treated simply as
"given" attributes of any individual or other unit; "technology" must
either be included among resources or added as a third given-the
latter the more useful procedure. On the average, an economic subject's
own person, with all its capacities, is the chief means under his control
and is in the majority of cases nearly his only resource. Differences be-
tween personal capacities and external "property" are the creation of
the legal system, and would be absent under a slave economy. The
virtual outlawing of enforcible contracts for personal services creates
a serious disadvantage for one whose resources are in the personal
form; for he cannot freely "realize" future value by sale or pledge
and is consequently dependent on a continuous market as well as
continuity in the capacity itself. But the benefits of freedom are pre-
sumably thought greater than the evil.


---Economics-1951-0-11.txt---
The principle of freedom is apparently accepted in modern civiliza-
tion-consequently called "liberal"-on three or four grounds, which
overlap somewhat. First, and most commonly cited, it is instrumental
to the realization of other ends accepted as rightful. Modern thought
locates value in the individual rather than making him an instrument
to the purposes of the state or its ruler. And it is assumed that the
normal adult person is ordinarily a better judge of his own interests,
values, or well-being, than any agent of society (bureaucrat) given
authority over him is likely to be. Second, freedom itself is a thing
men want, and have a right to, even possibly at the cost of a formally
better management of one's affairs by an overlord of any kind; the
normal person prefers within wide limits to "make his own mistakes."
Third, it is a "value," a thing the individual ought to want, even ought
to have if he may not choose it, a part of the modern ideal of the dignity
of the person. Thus the laws of liberal states do not allow men to sell
themselves (or their children) into "involuntary servitude," even if
they so choose, though everyone is free from day to day to place him-
self or his property under the direction of another, on terms satisfactory
to both parties. This is the entrepreneurial relation, which is in a real
sense the central feature of the modern free economy. Finally, there is
a fourth, "pragmatic" reason, for extending the scope of freedom;
policing is costly to the public authority and coercion itself needs to be
economized.
From the standpoint of explaining actual behavior, one can only
"submit" that people want to economize and that their efforts to make
resources go further are more or less successful; also that correct appor-
tionment of resources among uses is a way of economizing, as are
specialization through exchange of products and the organization of
effort under specialized direction. A large sector of individual and
social behavior is then more or less fully "explained" by these prin-
ciples. How far they go, and what other principles or unsystematic
occurrences may have to be considered, I obviously cannot take up
in detail here.
Certainly economic principles are subject to sweeping limitations as
to their explanatory value. They tell us nothing about concrete eco-
nomic facts, what wants people have, what goods are produced and
exchanged, what resources and techniques are employed, what distribu-
tion takes place. The justification of treating these data in a purely
abstract way is the significance of theory for policy, and I shall come
back to that. Further, it is easy for a critic to "riddle" the principle
of abstract rationality. No one thinks, I hope, that consumers con-
sciously strive to maximize satisfaction, well-being, or whatever it be,
by acting in relation to a known function connecting the state in ques-


---Economics-1951-0-12.txt---
tion with measurable quantities of things available at given prices.
Effort to get the maximum return in money for productive services
seems more realistic, but the view that production is purely in order
to have consumption, unaffected by interests of its own, is clearly
indefensible. Yet comparisons between uses of means are made and
apportionments effected; and the logical principles inherent in these
acts are useful for interpretation even if they do not accurately picture
the conscious motives. It suffices that men largely behave "as if" they
were trying to conform to the principles. These have great value in
the prediction of effects of changes, effects both on and through price
movements, changes that happen or are contrived. And the alternative,
which is statistics on a behavioristic basis, is subject to much the same
limitations, rooted in the vagueness and instability of motives. Cer-
tainly the main effort in statistical economics, the prediction of changes
in business conditions, has not produced results justifying much elation.
More detailed consideration would carry us into the question of the
possibilities and limitations of a natural or positive science of human
conduct. Many limitations are plain to see, and they are related to the
essential fact, which is that such a science is not what we need; indeed,
the idea is an absurdity. For, if even two people predict one another's
behavior and act on their predictions, both predictions will be falsified
and the activities of both parties misdirected. From the standpoint of
explanation alone, motives correspond to forces in mechanics. These
too are unobserved, metaphysical; we read them into the phenomena
for interpretation, because our minds work that way. Forces, however,
are known and measured only by their effects, hence always correspond
exactly with the latter. But we have other information about human
motives, and "know" indisputably that they do not correspond closely
with results, that the connection is affected in all degrees by error of
numerous kinds. Particularly, where motivation takes the form of
using means to achieve ends, either may be more or less "wrong," and
the two errors are only vaguely separable. In this field, knowledge
is so vague and evidence so conflicting that no one can tell with any
accuracy at all, even afterwards, to what degree any action is really
economic. Still further, we know that the goods and services produced,
traded, and consumed do not correspond to final or real wants. These
are largely not individual, as the theory requires, but inhere in social
relations, such as "keeping up with the Joneses," and "getting ahead
of the Joneses"; or, they are symbolic, even deliberately "set up," as
in play, to make action interesting and yield the feeling of success or
victory-thus reversing the means-end relation assumed in economics.
Or, the motive is no particular result but mere gratification of curiosity


---Economics-1951-0-13.txt---
as to what the result will be. And all these symbolic relations are ex-
tremely unstable and change unpredictably.
Since a fetish of "scientific method" in the study of society is one
of the two most pernicious forms of romantic folly that are current
among the educated, this theme ought to be developed at a length
which is impossible here. (The other "folly," which will receive more
attention presently, as my main theme, is the idea that devotion to
moral principles offers the solution of social problems.) "Science," in
the meaning of the natural sciences, can of course do something toward
both explaining and directing social events; and nothing is further
from my purpose here than any belittling of the importance of ethics.
What I insist upon is an understanding of the meaning and limitations
of simple or statable principles in both areas. In the naive form in
which both doctrines, scientism and moralism, are usually preached,
both are antithetical to the principle or ideal of freedom; they imply,
and if taken seriously would lead to, absolute authoritarianism. The
notion that evils are due to sin works out, as European history makes
clear, in having the right people (as shown by their being in power)
enforce their orthodoxy on all by burning or otherwise liquidating the
heretics, schismatics, and infidels, as occasion demands, though mainly
by effective indoctrination and conditioning for submissiveness before
the age of responsibility. The principle has merely been taken over
by the Marxists from historical ecclesiastical Christianity, with un-
important changes in moral or political content, though with sweeping
but practically irrelevant change in the professed underlying meta-
physic. As to a "science" of human conduct, I have mentioned some
difficulties, notably that one of the most distinctive traits of man is
make-believe, hypocrisy, concealment, dissimulation, deception. He is
the clothes-wearing animal, but the false exterior he gives to his body
is nothing to that put on by his mind. My evangelist, Talleyrand, also
remarked that speech is the medium by which men disguise their
thoughts. The "real wants" or wishes, referred to before, run largely
in pairs of opposites; besides conformity and distinction we find
familiarity and novelty or fixity and change, adventure and security,
and so on. Mostly they have no specific content and anything that
happens or is done will fit one or the other of some pair. Such prin-
ciples cannot explain any concrete occurrence, the obvious weakness
of the "instincts" that were the groundwork of a "psychology" very
popular some years ago.
Another obstreperous feature of human phenomena is that men
have "attitudes" toward law as such, both descriptive and imperative
law, and both positive and negative attitudes. If there is a law, either


---Economics-1951-0-14.txt---
a uniformity or a command and someone finds it and publishes it, one
of the first results is a general impulse to violate it. Man is a "contrary
critter"-in contrast with the conformism of physical nature. And on
the other hand, men love to make laws for their own sake, to conform
for a while, until tired of it, then break them and make new ones.
Much of the apparent uniformity of behavior is such ritual. And there
may be substantive reasons for non-conformity, or for temporary con-
formity that ultimately causes disruption of the pattern. A familiar
example is boom and depression in various prices and in general prices
-the purchasing power of money. An accepted prediction of change
will cause the change predicted, for a time, then an inevitable re-
versal. It is true that many generalizations can be made about men
and about all known societies. Professor Murdock has listed some
dozens of them. But they are of a general, abstract type. All men
have a language-but what language? and what will they say in it
or with it? And so with numerous institutions. Every society has a
technology which "works" up to a point, keeps people alive; but in
spite of the conformity of the physical world to uniform natural laws,
the fact tells us virtually nothing significant as to what to expect in
the way of concrete "economic" behavior, corresponding to the predic-
tion of planetary orbits, eclipses, etc., or the outcome of physical opera-
tions. (But if a physical operation is experimental, problem-solving,
prediction of the result or the course of the operation itself is a self-
contradiction.) All peoples and most individuals have some religion.
But the careful student, Professor Lowie, finds it impossible to, give
a general definition of the word, and the dictionary definitions, vague
as they are, do not cover actual usage. The simple fact is that we
commonly recognize and describe human behavior forms as expres-
sions of some feeling, intent, belief, not as bare acts. And our terms
often contain an inseparable value-judgment as well; there is no specific
intent, not to mention a specific act, of murder or theft.
* * *
All this about the abstract and interpretive character of economic
theory or principles has little to do with their significance. That is be-
cause their main value is connected with policy determination, under
the fundamental ethical principle of freedom. Assuming that men have
a right to want and strive to get whatever they do want, and to have
the tastes and "higher" values they do have, as long as their conduct
does not infringe the equal rights of others, the business of the eco-
nomics of principles, of utility, productivity, and price, is to explain
that, and how, the organization through buying-and-selling enables
everyone to do whatever he tries to do (whether rational or not, as
judged by anyone else) many times more effectively than would be pos-


---Economics-1951-0-15.txt---
sible if each used his own means in a self-sufficient economic life.
Everyone is free, as a Crusoe is free, and also enjoys the nearly bound-
less gain in the effectiveness of action possible through organization. In
fact, the individual's range of choice is extended in a new dimension
beyond that of Crusoe; he can produce anything he pleases, or make
any specific contribution to production, and independently consume
anything or any combination produced by anyone anywhere in the
economy. No other possible method of organization will afford this
two-fold freedom. And anyone is also free to stay out of the system
and live his own self-sufficient life, as far as he cares to stand the
loss in efficiency-which usually in fact would rapidly become too
great to be borne. And all are free to give and receive goods or counsel,
and to cooperate on any terms other than those set by the market which
they, the parties concerned, may agree in preferring on moral grounds
or for any reason. Distribution, what the individual (family unit) gets
out of it all, is also in principle the same as with a Crusoe; it is what
he produCes. That is, what he--the productive "capacity" he furnishes
-adds to total output, which is the only meaning the product of a unit
can have when production is a joint activity. In fact, the "imputation"
process under market-competition is valid in the sense in which any
single causes produce an effect where causes act jointly, as they always
do. It is the diference caused by the single contribution, as isolated by
the mathematical operation of partial differentiation. (Consumption
is usually treated, not very accurately, as unorganized.)
Stating all this at length makes me feel that I ought to apologize
to you, and to myself; for it is really at the level of truism and trivi-
ality. Of course there are "assumptions": that free association implies
mutual advantage and that freely chosen advantage to individuals is
"good," in contrast with obedience or ascetic self-denial or self-torture
(as men professed to believe even in Europe only a few centuries ago).
It is assumed that in general normal adults are rational enough to be
trusted to manage their own affairs, and decent enough to allow others
to do the same; but this means only in comparison with the dictates
of some human authority, political or ecclesiastical, chosen in what-
ever way, who might be in a position to order them around. The ethic
of liberal civilization holds (I repeat) both that men want to be free
and have a right to be, and they ought to be free, even if they them-
selves feel that their affairs might possibly be technically better man-
aged for them as slaves by some possible master. Of course even these
assumptions in an extreme version are made only for the purposes of
theory; everyone admits that in practice governments have to set some
limits to individual freedom and freedom of association and to perform
many functions on behalf of the community as a whole. If only eco-


---Economics-1951-0-16.txt---
nomics could really teach people the simple and obvious fact, which
most of them already know but refuse to accept, that anyone producing
for exchange is producing for himself, as much as a Crusoe, but merely
a thousand times more effectively because he does it indirectly by pro-
ducing for the needs of others. If this were realized, it would surely put
an end to all the insane or diabolical revolutionary propaganda and
most of the stupid criticisms of the "capitalist system" that menace our
free institutions. Why it is necessary to teach this, and accordingly so
hard, if not useless to try, is the major real social problem. I can give it
little consideration here. But I must note an apparent "innate disposi-
tion" in men to think that somebody is getting the better of them, that
they are working for somebody else, even where it is, if possible, more
absurd than the idea of the wage-worker that he is working to make
profits for some greedy capitalist. Doesn't the student regularly talk
about working for his professor, and even the patient aver that he
is coerced by his doctor, whom he hires and fires and even defies, at
will-except for the natural consequences? The much-abused "profit-
system" is of course merely a pattern of cooperation, on the terms most
satisfactory to the parties concerned, or the only terms they can agree
upon. "Property" has intrinsically nothing to do with it; it may be and
is the same where only labor services are involved at all.
I wish I had time to follow up in particular the relation between
doctor and patient. The similarities and differences as compared with,
say, the relationships of an industrial corporation, should be interesting,
even instructive. Two or three obvious facts which need emphasis must
be barely mentioned. The doctor in whose hands one places oneself
as a "case" will inevitably have much power, variously and precari-
ously limited by moral, legal, and other restrictions and compulsions.
The only real freedom the patient can have is the right and opportunity
to choose and change at will his doctor. And the significance of this is
limited, since in the nature of things the patient cannot act very in-
telligently in the matter. He would himself have to possess the spe-
cialized knowledge of the medical profession, and much more, in
order to appraise it in others. But the case of individual patient and
individual doctor (or other professional counselor) is simple in com-
parison with the problem presented by the vast and highly organized
productive units required for the exploitation of modern technology.
Here centralized direction is imperative anyway, apart from specialized
competence in the directive function. Hence the final word of the
candid economist to the public must be-don't expect too much, in
the way of freedom, or justice, along with the immeasurable increase
in technical efficiency that results from these two facts of modern
civilization, special competence, and centralized direction. In particu-


---Economics-1951-0-17.txt---
lar, don't expect too much of "tlle state"; be very critical in appraising
the prospects for good and for harm to result before calling on
"Leviathan" and giving him power. In the scope of this address, this,
the most vital conclusion, must be stated rather than argued; but it
remains true that the chief reliance of the "employee" must be free-
dom of choice among employers, unsatisfactory though it is, as in the
case of the patient and the doctors.
Given the principle of freedom, as active freedom of association, the
notion of scientific control of society is a palpable contradiction. (It
applies in varying degree in the treatment of defectives, young chil-
dren, and criminals.) For a dictator, the problem would be formally
parallel to that of scientific technology; but even in that case, the con-
tent of control would be utterly different. For, unless he could completely
drug or hypnotize and so eliminate the minds and wills of his subject-
slaves, the autocrat-proprietor of a society would have to rule throughi
those minds and wills. Hence the operation would employ such tech-
niques as persuasion or coercion, suggestion, cajolery, flattery, and,
above all, deception-which is at the heart of what is called "force"
in human relations-and also, inevitably, some real discussion. But
these things have no meaning for the relations between purposive
human beings and the inert objects of nature where scientific technique
is literally applicable. (The higher animals, notably in domestication,
present an intermediate situation which must here be ignored.) In a
democracy, the notion of control is not merely unethical, it is excluded,
ipso facto. The self-contradiction of a number of persons mutually pre-
dicting one another's behavior and acting on their predictions has
already been pointed out, and that of mutual control is even more ob-
viously absurd. The problem of democracy is to establish a consensus,
by genuine discussion, with intellectual appeal to super-individual
norms. Mere expression of individual desires is not discussion and can
only exacerbate conflict of interests and intensify the problem, not tend
toward solution in all-around agreement. Objective norms belong to a
third level of reality, distinct from and above individual desire or end-
and-means, as the category of the instrumental is different from and
"above" mechanical sequence or cause-and-effect. And judgments about
norms and ideals are affected by a different category of error, though
the facts, that norms are objects of desire, and that means-and-end
parallels cause-and-effect make clear analysis impossible.
Genuine "free" discussion is a difficult thing to deal with con-
ceptually, and more difficult to realize in practice. The problem pre-
sents two aspects: first, agreement on the range in which agreement
itself is considered necessary, as marked off from individual freedom
and diversity, and second, the specific content of uniformity in its


---Economics-1951-0-18.txt---
sector. On any considerable scale, discussion itself must be organized;
and this organization presents practically the same problems as the
matter to be dealt with, specifically the limitation of freedom by rules
and authority in order to secure the greatest possible freedom and the
performance of function.
The supreme and inestimable merit of the exchange mechanism is
that it enables a vast number of people to cooperate in the use of
means to achieve ends as far as their interests are mutual, without
arguing or in any way agreeing about either the ends or the methods
of achieving them. It is the "obvious and simple system of natural
liberty." The principle of freedom, where it is applicable, takes other
values out of the field of social action. In contrast, agreement on terms
of cooperation through discussion is hard and always threatens to be-
come impossible, even to degenerate into a fight, not merely the failure
of cooperation and loss of its advantages. The only agreement called for
in market relations is acceptance of the one essentially negative ethical
principle, that the units are not to prey upon one another through
coercion or fraud.
This picture of the open-market, free-enterprise organization must
sound very one-sided, and it is one-sided. Presumably, no competent
mind has ever believed in it exclusively. If there have been real
anarchists, they were not economists. And the society pictured by the
pure, idealized theory of the market economy is, or would be, one held
together by the single moral principle just stated. This is entirely
proper as a postulate for theoretical analysis at a certain stage of ab-
straction. But the idea that freedom, or any single principle, contains
the solution, or the best solution, of social problems, is of course un-
realistic, and is directly contrary to the thesis of this paper, as stated at
the outset. Exaggeration of the significance of freedom, or over-
emphasis, to the neglect of other principles, was the great error of the
liberal age, and is partly responsible for the reaction we now witness,
which threatens extinction of freedom and of all defensible values. It
should go without saying that freedom alone would not produce an
approximation to the conditions required for a market itself, the freest
possible market. And modern economists have not thought otherwise.
The accusation that Adam Smith, for example, believed in a universal
harmony of interests among men, is merely one discouraging example
of what passes widely in learned circles for history and discussion.
At a minimum, rules must be made and enforced by some agency repre-
senting the whole market collectively; and the policing must be paid
for on a principle other than direct individual payment for service
received. And at most, as I have emphasized, the market deals only in
impersonal values. To realize its ideal character, the system would


---Economics-1951-0-19.txt---
have to be operated through vending machines, avoiding personal con-
tact between the parties to exchange. At this point, I turn to more
detailed, though brief and inadequate, notice of the limitations of free-
dom, from the standpoint of policy, or of freedom as a policy. This
will be followed by an even briefer glance at the alternatives and the
final practical problem, making up the classical three parts of the
argument.
There is a paradox about the general problem of economic organiza-
tion. One can state a case which sounds much like an "air-tight" justi-
fication of market freedom or laissez-faire. But if it is easy to "riddle"
the notion of means-end rationality as an explanatory principle, this
is still more true of the apologetic for reliance on the free market as
an ideal social policy. We also encounter a logical paradox in the con-
cept of freedom. On one hand, it is not discussable, being the pre-
supposition of discussion, and freedom in conduct is inseparable from
that in communication. Yet we are brought up short by a glance at
our own history. For it is only in the small island of our own modern
(post-Enlightenment) West European culture that the axiom is ac-
cepted; in history as a whole, including rather especially European
history in the preceding epochs, political or economic liberty, and even
more, religious-moral-intellectual freedom, was emphatically rejected,
on principle, if it was ever contemplated as a possibility. The aristo-
cratic, slave-holding town-republics of ancient times hardly call for
mention as exceptions. Though we can learn from their experience and
discussion because some problems of democracy arise within any rul-
ing class (unless it is an established hierarchy headed by an absolute
authority like Hitler, the Pope or Stalin, with effective provision for
the succession). The rise of the strange phenomenon of modern liberal-
ism is undoubtedly to be explained in part as a reaction against the
peculiar dogmatism, intolerance, and obscurantism of medieval "Chris-
tian" Europe. But much of the former spirit is with us yet; and the
superposition of an ethic of extreme freedom and individual rights on
an extreme authoritarianism of obedience and duties based on status,
is surely a chief source of the moral-intellectual confusion of our age,
of which we hear so much (and so much nonsense). And a kind of
pendular principle in history no doubt helps to account for the new
turnabout which has carried so much of the world back to despotism.
My own view of the social-economic policy is not greatly concerned
with the notion of treating the individual satisfaction-function as a
welfare-function and proceeding to the notion of a social maximum in
terms of some relation between individual maxima. It is too clearly
indefensible to treat "happiness" or the "good life" for the individual
as a definable end to be achieved by a definite technique; and even


---Economics-1951-0-20.txt---
more indefensible to view the objective of social-economic policy in
terms of the amount and distribution of measurable impersonal goods
and services. Wealth and poverty are terribly important things, but
that view of their significance seems to me an absurd over-simplifica-
tion. Freedom itself, as a value per se, is far more important. In "eco-
nomic" life, in the ordinary empirical reference, the motivation of
competitive sport plays a role at least as great as the endeavor to
secure gratifications mechanically dependent on quantitative consump-
tion. Some business efficiency expert is said to have advised reforming
football by having all the men play on the same side, instead of half
pushing against the other half. The real problem centers, of course, in
the fact that activity has both characters; it is a game, but one in which
the most vital substantive goods, comfort and life itself, are stakes,
inseparably combined with victory and defeat and their bauble-
symbols. The social problem is to make the best possible rules for this
complex and paradoxical game, which everyone is compelled to play.
And it must go on almost without interruption, and it is impossible to
play a game and discuss the rules at the same time. The intellectual
problem involved in rule-making is different in kind from that of play
itself, and neither-it is important to note-has much relation to
scientific technology, or means-end rationality; nor to our traditional
religious-ethical principle of charity. For, when charity comes into a
game, the game goes out; though in relation to the other aspect of the
process, the production and distribution of goods considered intrinsically
useful, it does have a part to play. I may suggest that the ethic really
believed in and reasonably practiced by the modern man centers in
sportsmanship, and the related principle of workmanship.
Even with much and costly social action, there can be no very close
approximation to the theoretical perfect market, particularly in one
important area, the labor market. This fact does not at all justify most
of the action being taken in that field, by unions or by government; in
general, the argument against price control and other interference is
made stronger, not weaker, by the "imperfect competition" which is
used as a defense for it. And the action we see is designed to make the
market still more imperfect, and to benefit a select stratum already
comparatively well off, at the expense of their weaker brethren. The
effects cannot be traced and measured in detail, but it is a safe "princi-
ple" that in a power contest the weakest get the worst of it. The chief
"mechanical" defects in the market system arise less out of "frictions"
than out of speculative situations. When in order to act rationally each
must first know or guess at what everyone else will do, the result is
complicated cyclical tendencies; in particular, speculation in the future
value of money gives rise to "the business cycle," sometimes an actual


---Economics-1951-0-21.txt---
social disaster. Monopoly is another evil, though the public miscon-
ceives its nature and grossly exaggerates the extent and power of busi-
ness monopolies. A majority of producers and dealers have some
short-run monopoly position; but in general, monopoly is temporary
and functional, on the same principle as patent-rights. Protective duties
foster monopoly; but where monopoly really bites is in the legal
brigandage of organized wage-earners and farmers. The business inter-
est itself is far more dangerous to free society through political action
as a pressure group; but it stands no chance in competition with voting
masses "agitated" and organized for power and plunder-all the worse
for their self-righteous motivation. Obviously, anything like nation-wide
collective bargaining and striking is coercion of the country, not of
any opposed economic interest; and as noted, the heaviest cost falls
on other "workers," especially those still weaker. (Perhaps I should
use a more polite word; but I said I would exploit the privilege of age
to put truth ahead of manners; and what does anyone, including the
"honest brigand" want but his "rights," to be judge of his own case
and have coercive power to enforce his own verdict?)
Far more important than all the mechanical imperfections of "market
competition" (the real ones, not created by stupid or unwise public
action) are limitations of the principle of economic freedom inherent
in unalterable conditions of life and associative action. Our economic
ills are not due to the failure of competition; on the contrary, the result
of perfect functioning of the system would be socially quite intolerable.
The free market, with reasonable help from state authority, can make
tolerable provision for the economic cooperation of individuals and
other "units," as far as it is "cooperation," as far as their interests
are mutual. By the same argument it can not solve any other problems,
and there are many other and grave problems that insistently call for
solution. So in other fields: free association will solve the problems "up
to a point," but not completely or by itself. Social problems are not
only hard but finally insoluble. Yet many of them will inevitably get
some kind of "treatment"; it is a question of better or worse, or of
making things better, more or less, or making them worse than before,
even to downright disaster. As I remember hearing "Tommy" Adams
say in a classroom, we must not call any problems insoluble which must
be solved in some way and for which some solutions are better, or
worse, than others.
The most serious limitations of the free-market economy, and major
problems set by it, arise from the fact that it takes the "units," indi-
viduals, families, etc., as "given," which is entirely unrealistic. In the
economic aspect specifically, it "assumes" given "wants, resources and
technique," in possession of each and all. The market is an agency of


---Economics-1951-0-22.txt---
cooperation between such given units; it is no agency for improving
tastes (wants) or manners or especially for conferring productive
capacity to meet wants or needs; it will not redistribute capacity and
hence product, to accord better than the realities do with any norm of
ideal justice. Business relations clearly do work to dissolve clannishness
and dogmatic allegiances, and to promote tolerance, and a degree of
generosity. But in the distribution of economic resources atomistic
motivation tends powerfully toward cumulatively increasing inequality.
For all productive capacity-whether owned "property" or personal
qualities-is essentially "capital," a joint creation of pre-existing ca-
pacity (or the result of "accident"). And those who already have more
capacity are always in a better position to acquire still more, with the
same effort and sacrifice. This applies about as much to personal
capacity as to property, though the latter is a more convenient way
of passing on "unearned" advantage to heirs or successors. It is a gross
injustice-by one of several conflicting norms of justice generally
accepted in liberal society. But it is also the main reliance for the
motivation of accumulation in all forms, hence of progress, all forms
of which are directly or indirectly dependent on means and their eco-
nomical use. And the tendency goes on beyond the individual life,
from generation to generation, through the family and transmission of
advantages. It is modified but hardly mitigated, and certainly not
simplified, by the large element of "luck" in human affairs. Any serious
effort to interfere with the process would weaken the family in other
connections, and if it were replaced by some other primary group, the
anti-equalitarian tendency might still be as strong.
No doubt we all agree that extremes of wealth and poverty are un-
just, especially when they do not correspond with personal effort or
sacrifice-and are bad in other ways. The question is, what can we
do about it? Can the rules of the economic game be so changed that
the winnings, symbolic and real (and the former are not much inferior
in importance) will accord better with some accepted or defensible
criterion of justice? And can it be done without wrecking the game
itself, as a game, and as a producer of the fruits on which we all live?
The intricate conflict of values here cannot be spelled out in detail-
freedom with order, efficiency and progress, interesting activity, but
especially freedom versus justice. The ancient provision against misery
was to stress as sacred the obligations of family and neighborhood, and
"charity," alms-giving, by those having an excess over "needs." But in
the main, men were told and conditioned to believe that somehow
everything is really for the best, and the evils of life have to be borne


---Economics-1951-0-23.txt---
-patience and fortitude. Almsgiving tended to mean supporting the
clergy and endowing religious foundations, while an uncertain fraction
went to relieve poverty (real or feigned) and that did an uncertain
amount of good-certainly made little impression on poverty as a
whole. Modern society has largely shifted the load of relief from the
family and local group, which can no longer so well bear it, or be made
to, and centralized it more and more on the national government
through progressive income and inheritance taxation. A vast improve-
ment has come about, chiefly through assuring to poor children sup-
port and some equipment for earning a livelihood, with family limita-
tion offsetting improved sanitation and medical care. This of course
does not meet either ideal requirements or the popular demand-per-
haps even social necessity considering, again, the children, now future
citizen-voters as well as producers of more children, and soldiers. But
specialists seem to agree that taxation, for peace uses, can be pushed
further very gradually at best, if the practical limit has not already
been approached, at least for a government that is not to employ powers
incompatible with basic freedoms. So what? I have no answer to that
one, especially for the crucial matter of how far society can allow
free production of children and agree to support them "decently" and
of necessity their parents along with them. But the classes that pro-
duce babies can outvote those that prefer "substance and culture" to
large families, particularly if the latter are soft-hearted and encourage
them to demand "justice." Moreover, the prolific can muster the larger
armies, and perhaps the tougher too, where the distinction conforms to
national areas; and it is here the conflict between freedom and equali-
tarian justice now is the great world menace.
With no pretense that my message is a cheering one, I can only, in
the interest of what seems to me plain truth, go on to emphasize the
difficulties of our problems and the danger of action that will make
things worse instead of better. As is now evident, the "liberal" nine-
teenth century, following the rationalistic eighteenth, was wrong in its
view that mere individual liberty, religious-intellectual, political and
economic, would yield well-being and happiness. It did indeed accom-
plish wonders, supplemented by the kind of state action accepted by its
original advocates. And people seem much more actively dissatisfied
than before. J. S. Mill's Political Economy and Marx-Engels' Com-
munist Manifesto appeared almost simultaneously in the middle of the
"wonderful century," wonderful especially for the common man. But
Mill was very critical of the institution of property; and the Manifesto
called on the workers of the world to unite for the violent overthrow
of all pre-existing social order, because "you have nothing to lose but
your chains." Madness, criminal madness, of course; but how many of


---Economics-1951-0-24.txt---
the bright and educated have fallen for and preacned it, in democratic
countries where the masses are well off beyond historical comparison!
And it has become the accepted political creed in the largest nations of
the Old World, who now thlreaten us so dangerously with "liberation"
in accord with its tenets. Is it human nature to be more dissatisfied the
better off one is? I shall not venture an answer to that one, either.
All I can do is to indicate the nature of the problem of free society,
as I see it, point out some false leads and some things that "have to
be," "or else." I do not predict; it may be a case like Uncle Remus's
rabbit that was "bleeged to climb a tree," to get away from a dog. If
free society is to exist, the electorate must be informed, and must have
and use economic and political intelligence and, of course, possess the
moral qualities actually needful. On the intelligence factor I cannot
take time to say more. I hope I have said enough to show that the
problem is not of the kind so successfully attacked by natural science
and technology in the interest of control by man over the natural en-
vironment. It must be "social" intelligence, of the general sort exempli-
fied in the discussion by a group of the problem of improving a game
-but with complications due to the vast scale of national and world
society and the complex of conflicting interests and ideals involved. For
help as to intelligence, we now instinctively turn to institutional edu-
cation. This can certainly impart information, up to varying individual
limits, and schools have also been successful enough in increasing
knowledge-some say too successful -and the somewhat opposed
functions of transmission and revision might perhaps be better co-
ordinated. But does education make people intelligent? As to certain
"intellectual skills," no doubt it does, again up to varying limits. But
as to good sense, the "gumption" required to select and reject between
sound measures and crude economic nostrums, such as I mentioned
at the outset, the arbitrary interference with freedom of trade, fixing
prices by fiat, and preaching revolution, the evidence is not encourag-
ing. The "smart" and the educated seem to fall for these as readily as
the man--in-the-street. Indeed it often appears that the result of costly
training is to make people more ingenious in thinking up and defend-
ing indefensible theories. The crackpots of all kinds and degrees are not
recruited from the dumbbell or ignoramus classes. Even outside the
"moral sciences," it is not these who spend their lives squaring the
circle and inventing perpetual-motion machines.
What schools can do on the side of moral qualities is another ques-
tion. But first let me say here what I have long believed, that the crucial
problem in our whole intellectual-spiritual life, our culture, is the rela-
tions between the great values, perhaps especially truth and goodness
or knowledge and virtue. I have time only for these and to note the


---Economics-1951-0-25.txt---
relative neglect of the third member of the trio, beauty and taste-
taste that is good or bad, in contrast with "mere" taste-and the even
more neglected role of play or fun, entirely left out of the good life
in our Hebrew-Puritan tradition. You will recall that Socrates-Plato
thought that virtue is knowledge (meaning reasoned knowledge, like
mathematics, not science) in opposition to the Christian (Pauline)
view, that we know the good but choose the evil. (But Aristotle at least
partly disagreed with Plato, and a famous saying of Ovid sides with
Paul.) My point is that I see the main task of education in our age as
training to separate believing and believing-in from liking for other
reasons, at the crudest level, to distinguish sound from sense and in
general, truth from esthetic or moral or any "romantic" attraction. In
any case, indoctrination is a vicious trap, and a liberal must wish it were
impossible. The first test of a free society is that it teach its youth to
question and criticize and form opinions only by weighing evidence-
and to admit ignorance where there is no evidence-instead of implant-
ing eternal and immutable truth, with abject submission to the inevita-
ble authoritative interpreter, by some prescriptive right. And on the
other side, it is an equally pernicious idea that by education a society
can lift itself by its bootstraps. Who is to educate the educators? Only
some absolute authority, manifestly. And control of education is the first
aim of the totalitarian. His ideal is a priesthood as the custodians of
Truth, "conditioning" each generation in helpless infancy to unques-
tioning belief, and to go through life like little children.
One of the hardest lessons which in my opinion our democracy has
to learn is to make necessary reservations about much of our ethical
tradition, propagated under religious or church auspices. It should
be superfluous to point out that this is an inheritance from an age when
virtue in the common man was thought by everyone to consist precisely
in the acceptance and submission I just spoke of-conformity to a
sacred law and obedience to consecrated authority, Holy Mother
Church and Holy Father King. What our Sunday-school moral adages
mean is simply the command to be good children and mind Momma
and Poppa. They sound well, and their sentiment has a place; but if
we ask what they mean, from the standpoint of democratic citizenship,
they are simply irrelevant. When they were proclaimed, the idea that
the ordinary man (not to mention the woman) should make and un-
make the laws and literally hire and fire the rulers, would have pro-
voked only loathing and terror, if it had been dreamed of as a possibility.
Even the "Golden Rule," to treat others as you would be treated, is also
an epigram. First, it should of course be as the other himself would
be treated, or as "you" would be in his place, and with him in yours.
But for the slave master, what the slave would want would be to change


---Economics-1951-0-26.txt---
places: "let me be master and you be slave"-which would be no im-
provement in the system. But such is the romantic view of God: one
who puts down the mighty from their seats and exalts the lowly, who
fills the poor with good things, but the rich he sends empty away. Well,
turn about may be fair play, but again we get no light on how to im-
prove the social order. Taking slavery or any institutional framework
as given, humane behavior is laudable. And that is exactly what our
religious ethic did, and does; it takes the established order of things
as given, in fact as divinely ordained: "Let every soul be subject unto
the higher powers. For there is no power but of God: the powers that
be are ordained of God" (Romans, 13:1). And of course this explicitly
included subservience of wives to their husbands. The only exception
recorded is the right of the propagandist of the "true faith" to preach,
in defiance of the authorities (Acts 5:29).
Again, as always (in accord with my theme) there is another side.
Liberalism can be equally naive and as given to empty words. No adult
in his right mind ever believed that men are born free and equal-
except for that complete and in that sense equal helplessness, for which
freedom is without meaning. The socialists and communists have called
religion the opiate of the masses, and in a broad historical sense that is
correct. But two other truths have not been so clear to either side in
the controversy. First; some pacifier, reconciler or escape was necessary
in a society that accepted the "static" philosophy of life that actually
was accepted everywhere prior to the "awakening" in Western Europe
in the 17th and 18th centuries. Then were born the ideas of freedom
and of progress in and through knowledge and intelligent action under
free cooperative association. For man is a romantic animal; and
until a people is prepared to make changes by intelligent agreement,
supernatural sanctions are required to make them accept what is estab-
lished and not criticize or try to change it. The second fact is that-
disregarding the question of how much intellectual maturity West-
European peoples had attained by the age of the Enlightenment-it is
certain on general grounds that the basic framework of social order
must always be accepted custom, interpreted and applied by agents
having a large amount of power. The possible amount and speed of
free and intelligent social change will always be quite narrowly limited.
This is particularly true if intelligent change is taken to mean change
in the direction of the ideals of justice and freedom, justice implying
some kind of fundamental equality-and other values generally ac-
cepted in our modern liberal world-view. As I would like to show at
greater length than is possible here, no close approach to realization of
those ideals is within the realm of possibility. Consequently, men will
always require, as a condition for maintaining any high civilization at


---Economics-1951-0-27.txt---
all, some "opiate," or some effective agent to prevent their demanding
their rights. The only alternative to belief in supernatural sanctions of
an existing system quite far from just is that intelligence shall be
fully aware of its own narrow limitations and be supplemented by a
high order of tolerance, and self-sacrifice, the patient acceptance of the
best all-round choice among evils. Especially, as the world is built,
the chances of loss are overwhelmingly greater than the chances of
gain in any effort to escape the ills we have by flying to others that we
know not of. Since order is the absolute requisite of civilized life, we
must stick to the order that is, until there is a reasonable agreement on
changes that will be on balance beneficial.
The balance will always be hard to strike and entirely a matter of
judgment, not of formula, a balance between principles that conflict,
while each claims to be absolute. The danger now, in the world and in
the West, is that freedom will be thrown away, for a promise or hope
of justice, but with an actual result of neither justice nor freedom, and
very likely the suicide of civilization in war without rules. The world
could be heading toward a new age of essentially religious wars,
ideological wars. Historically this would be nothing new, except for its
scale and for the destructiveness of modern military technology. Other-
wise, Europe is reverting to form. For as I have said, Communism, in
its social program or pretensions, is largely a revival of historical-
ecclesiastical Christianity, with the church more effectively merged
in one all-powerful state. From the downfall of the Roman imperium to
the age of liberalism, Europe lived under one or more dogmatic, in-
tolerant, persecuting and violently proselyting religions-claiming pos-
session of the formula for salvation they could not be or do otherwise
-and much of the time in a state of war between two or more such
religions. In Christianity, surely, we find the supreme "irony of his-
tory": that an original teaching centered ethically in humility, meek-
ness, self-denial, and self-sacrifice became organized into corporations
whose dignitaries have hardly been matched for arrogant grasping,
using, and flaunting of power and wealth and for insistence on pre-
rogative to the borderline of worship. One turns to Dostoievsky's
famous speech of the Grand Inquisitor, for any adequate portrayal of
this situation and its sinister indications of the nature of human nature.
The plea of Communism, like that of Christianity, is justice, under
absolute authority, ignoring freedom. (The former does extol progress,
and progress through science, both of which Christianity despised; by
the same argument, Communism is, overtly less devoted to law and tra-
dition, more openly claims the right to ignore or break the law.) For
Liberalism, the primary value is freedom, self-limited by laws made by
the community, ideally by general assent, in practice by representatives


---Economics-1951-0-28.txt---
elected by a voting majority-one of its dangers. The laws of a liberal
state will also be general, non-specific, but in a sense quite different
from the Golden Rule or Law of Universal Love. The familiar figure is
rules of the road, in contrast with instructions where and when and
how to travel, whether arbitrary or conformable to a traditional prac-
tice. But such freedom must be sweepingly limited by measures not
only of a "police" character in a broad sense, but also designed to
equip the individual and family for social life by implanting wants and
tastes in general conformity with the culture, and endowing with a
minimum of productive capacity (or ultimately with final goods) with-
out which freedom is a form empty of content. To take these units as
"given" is flagrantly contrary to essential facts-of-life, and means
ignoring the major social problem. It is along this line that 18th-19th
century liberalism went to an extreme that has provoked a reaction
which threatens to engulf all freedom, and justice too, in the modern
conception of it, if not to destroy civilization. Liberal states have been
engaged, however, through their short life, in correcting this imbalance
between freedom and justice; and more intelligence, better judgment,
is our need, rather than any radical departure in method.
The prime requisite is simply critical intelligence. And it may well
appear as if the race at large hates this type of effort, naturally, in-
stinctively. Anyhow, we have been conditioned in the opposite direc-
tion virtually throughout history, with the first breaking away from
the ideals of conformity and submission to sacred law and authority
during the past few centuries. The real heart of modern liberalism is a
radical change: a virtual inversion in the conception of truth and be-
lieving, a transfer from a moral-religious to an intellectual-moral basis.
What the world really needs to learn from science, for handling social
problems, is not its techniques but its moral code. In the religious age,
truth was absolute and belief a matter of right and wrong, hence,
naturally to be controlled by reward and punishment. For liberalism,
truth is always provisional, and rests on the "best" evidence--inci-
dentally, not logical demonstration, but that is a long story. Right
belief was a virtue, finally the condition of eternal salvation. The
principle was stated, particularly with reference to our own religious
tradition, by Lord Bacon: "the more absurd and incredible any divine
mystery is, the greater honor we do to God in believing it" (and in
similar terms by Tertullian, around 200 A.D.). Liberal moral values
fit the same description as the liberal conception of truth; not virtue
versus vice, but the best possible at any time and place. This means that
the object of devotion and pursuit is not ends but ideals, progressively
redefined as they are progressively realized, and always with the mode


---Economics-1951-0-29.txt---
and spirit of pursuit and definition-freedom, but under critical direc-
tion not caprice-as the most essential value.
A further consequence is that liberalism is fact-facing above all. It
does not pretend that existing economic conditions are just, but recog-
nizes that justice can be approached but never attained, and freedom
likewise and any other social ideal in its ideal form. It just is not that
kind of world. It is childish if not hypocritical to preach that all dis-
cord is harmony not understood, that "in erring reason's spite, One
truth is clear, whatever is, is right," or accordingly, that omnipotent
goodness and omniscience rule the world. As T. H. Huxley said, the
ways of the cosmos are not our ways. Rather it is man's work to re-
make the world, as far and as fast as he can, according to his sentiments
and ideals about which the Cosmos gives no evidence of the least con-
cern-and to be careful not to defeat the whole project by trying to
go too far or too fast with it. Also, to enjoy what goodness and beauty
we can find, without letting these appreciations confuse and corrupt
our judgments of truth. Any of my students or former students in the
audience will please forgive me for repeating here a statement I often
quote, from Clarence Darrow, characterizing divine justice. Said he,
"God made one man a genius and the other a fool-which always
seemed to me a raw thing for God to do-to the genius." Of course,
it is a raw thing for both of them; but the world is like that, and we
must take it or leave it. Nor is much freedom possible, either, in any
social order, and notably in the large-scale organizations, efficient and
yet constantly changing, that are required to exploit modern tech-
nology. You're in the army now, even in peacetime, especially in the
mass-production industries. You can only be reasonably free to elect
some othier work, in view of the "net advantages." As to justice, other
things are distributed even less in accord with merit than wealth and
income, and we can do little against the monstrous vicissitudes and
caprices of the natural world. To secure any form of social justice,
we should have to begin with a much more equitable distribution of
parents and more remote ancestors, and manifold other circumstances
that largely determine the character of one's life long before birth.
And even when one reaches the fullest responsibility, it is possible to
have but a fraction of the knowledge necessary for really intelligent
action. As to "happiness," it is easy to agree with Darrow, and
Meredith, and many more, that the idiot or, as Whitman put it, the
animals, have the best of it. But that happiness, at least, is not what
makes human life worth while.
We must, as I have suggested, be good sports, enjoy the game
whether we win or lose, not cheat even to win, and not even be too


---Economics-1951-0-30.txt---
sore when the opponent wins by a little cheating. And we must try, all
along, gradually to improve the rules, as well as to obey and help en-
force them. The main injunctions that can be given are negative, espe-
cially not to go too fast, not to oversimplify, not to grasp at easy solu-
tions for hard problems. I think the greatest danger is that suggested by
my text-a "moralistic" approach, attributing social evil to sin, with the
implication of cure by liquidating somebody, or at least firing some
scapegoat, and seeking a savior. People are not bad, in the main, but
they are ignorant and do not understand. They have not been taught to
approach problems in terms of knowing and understanding, but to
obey some ancient rule, as interpreted by those in power, or follow
some new prophet. Democracy calls for leadership, but that does not
mean finding the right man or party and giving him or them irresponsi-
ble power. We surely know what a dictator will do, once in power; he
will, indeed, use "science" to make everyone be good and do right.
I have used up my time without saying much about the alternatives
to the free economy; but that would be an endless task, and also one
for a corps of experts. Let me repeat that how people expect to cure
the social ills by a radical shift from business to democratic politics is a
question for which I see no answer except in terms of the psychology of
romantic prejudice and screwy thinking. Most of the evils inherent in
the market organization plainly inhere still more in political cam-
paigning, legislative debates, and administration, perhaps even judicial
trials. Especially the tendency to centralization and concentration of
power-which can only go so far until voting and political discussion
will be empty forms if the boss allows them to go on at all. Yet freedom
is not enough; it was carried too far, and more and more political action
is called for, though it is dangerous; if only it can be in the main right
action, or not too far wrong! Democratic action is hard. It means
government by discussion, and the organization of discussion itself, as
I said before, involves the main problems. Not much intercommunica-
tion is even theoretically possible. As the world is built, the cards are
heavily stacked in favor of centralization. Even in one direction, com-
munication is bad enough; among economists, for instance, the typical
reply to a criticism is, "but I didn't say that." I myself have been made
a bad example for views I supposed I was arguing against all through
the years. As to inter-communication-even with two persons there is
an insoluble problem of dividing the time for both between speaking
and listening; and it is said to give rise sometimes to friction, even
causing dissolution of the holy marriage bond. With larger numbers, the
limitation increases rapidly, in I know not what form of compound
progression. One person can, indeed, be heard by a considerable num-
ber and, with mechanical aids now available, by "the world," as well


---Economics-1951-0-31.txt---
as reached by print-if so disposed. But, though no prophet, I will
predict that no invention will ever enable one to listen or attend to
more than one other at a time, or to "send" and "receive" communica-
tions at the same time.
To conclude: Time was, no doubt, when society needed to be
awakened to the possibility of remedying evils, and stirred to action,
mostly negative action, establishing freedom, but some positive action
too. Now, we have found not only that mere individual freedom is not
enough, but that its excess can have disastrous consequences. And a
reaction has set in, so that people have too much faith in positive
action, of the nature of passing laws and employing policemen, and the
opposite warning is needed. At least so I hold; perhaps it is a prejudice
-how can one tell?-I mistrust reformers. When a man or group asks
for power to do good, my impulse is to say ,"Oh, yeah, who ever wanted
power for any other reason? and what have they done when they got
it?" So, I instinctively want to cancel the last three words, leaving
simply "I want power"; that is easy to believe. And, a further con-
fession: I am reluctant to believe in doing good with power anyhow.
With William James, I incline to the side of "the slow and silent
forces," slow as in all conscience they are-and though time is fleeting.
There is much more that should be said, but certainly not on this
occasion. When I started this I knew, from experience, that I'd never
finish it. Life seems to consist of "unfinished business." And, having
already imposed on you too long, without waiting for the peremptory
order that is given to naughty corporations, I simply cease and desist.


---Economics-1952-0-03.txt---
I
One advantage of a presidential address is that one can appear on our
program with a topic of his own choosing. It is however, a dubious ad-
vantage. As I have proceeded with the job of program making (and I
am sure my predecessors will testify to what an arduous job it is), I
have been asked what topic I was reserving for myself. But programs
are not made in that way, and as one works on a program so extensive
as ours, he is apt to find that he has assigned about all the topics that
interest him, and that, far from having reserved anything, his question
becomes what can he possibly find to say that does not trespass too
much on others.
I have decided to make mine a kind of personal confession. I came
into economics at a later age than most, with virtually no undergradu-
ate training in it and after several years of college teaching in a dif-
ferent field. Yet I had had for some time a genuine, if quite untutored,
interest in some of the economic problems of the times, and before
entering the Graduate School I carefully scanned the catalogue. I think
I have never fully recovered from the shock of having practically all
my choices crossed out, partly on the ground that some of the things
that had seemed important to me were by then thoroughly understood
and agreed upon by professional economists-I could read about them
later-and even more on the ground that one must have a thorough in-
doctrination in "theory" before doing anything with "applied fields" or
special "problems."
I am not criticizing my advisers and, now that I am somewhat in-
doctrinated, I would probably give similar advice. This experiences


---Economics-1952-0-04.txt---
however, not only gave me a feeling of strangeness that I spent most of
my first year trying to overcome, but also set in motion a process of
wondering about the content, purposes, and methods of economic in-
quiry that has remained with me ever since. One result was that (though
I have taught it and worked in it ever since) I never did have a course
in money and banking. This was one of the fields, according to my ad-
visers, in which the theory and the problems had been pretty well
worked out and agreed upon. Looking back (it was just after the Fed-
eral Reserve System had been established, and before wartime monetary
problems-not to speak of postwar problems-had emerged), it does
appear to have been a time when old controversies had grown sterile
and most men thought they knew where they stood and found little
worth debating about. Yet we were on the threshold of a period of re-
vival of interest which has outstripped all preceding periods, and which
has I think had more effect upon economic theory and policy, including
the Keynesian "revolution" and a vast literature on the monetary as-
pects of the business cycle, than any other development of recent times.
In international trade, which has been my other main interest, I did
have a course. I was singularly fortunate to have Professor Taussig as
a teacher and guide in research, and to have as friends and fellow stu-
dents such men as Jacob Viner and Frank Graham. But in this field
also it was a relatively quiet time, and I heard frequently the com-
ment that international trade theory was the part of classical econom-
ics, more than any other, that had withstood the buffetings of time and
change and, along with its handmaiden, the gold standard, had come
down to us virtually intact and unscathed.
II
One strong impression from those days, which has remained ever
since, is the relativity of economic principles and policies to changing
conditions. Keynes remarked on the "Ricardian victory" as "due to a
complex of suitabilities in the doctrine to the environment."' This was
surely no less true of the Keynesian victory; and since then time has
moved on again, and even the Keynesians are becoming changed men.
A fair question is how much does our thinking lead and direct, and
how much does it merely follow, the changes in environment. Very
much in the literature of economics strikes me as rationalization after
the event. This is not, however, necessarily a belittling comment, pro-
vided we know what we are doing and recognize the limitations.
The alternation of periods of comparative quiet with periods of in-
tense intellectual ferment has been characteristic of the development

---Economics-1952-0-05.txt---
of economic thought. Eighteenth-century English economic thinking
had been relatively sterile before Adam Smith, the founder of classical
economics, produced his Wealth of Nations in 1776. That book, to
which I find an increasing inclination to return in the discussion of
some of our current problems, particularly those of international eco-
nomic growth, came after a long period of decay of mercantilistic doc-
trines. The question is not whether mercantilist theory was wrong in
some absolute sense. Indeed, in our time there has been a considerable
revival of some of its ideas. But it clearly lacked a "complex of suit-
abilities" for the environment of the eighteenth century, and before
Adam Smith there had been a long period of chipping it away. Smith
had had a succession of forerunners in such men as Hume, Locke,
North, Steuart, Petty, and Cantillon; he wove together the separate
strands of thought which he had found and in the process revealed for
the first time their full significance for the modern age.
The Wealth of Nations was, preeminently, the product not only
of the man but of the times. It was the product of the great economic
changes, which through their successive phases of geographical dis-
covery, colonization, and commercial and industrial revolution, were
sweeping away old doctrines, laws, and institutions-themselves the
products of their times-and creating the modern world. This close
relation of ideas and events is of course understandable and desirable.
There appears to be a fairly well defined pattern. Times change, old
ideas are undermined, the time span depending upon the importance
and the rapidity of economic change; and on occasion, when the time
is ripe, new leaders come forward to produce their "revolutions." Such
a process is not confined to economics but has characterized every
field of human inquiry. This is not the source of my unrest. In eco-
nomics, however, there have been some features of the process which
have left with me, since graduate student days, the abiding sense of
wonder, to which I referred earlier, about the progress of our thinking,
and particularly whether we are making some progress toward doing
the leading, or are merely being led on by events which, after the fact,
we seek to rationalize into some plausible pattern.
Adam Smith has been described as a great observer, and even as a
great thinker, but not as a great theorist. Baumol's very interesting re-
cent book on Economic Dynamics2 begins with a chapter on "classical
dynamics." It makes not a single reference to Adam Smith, but gives
an excellent analysis of Ricardian economics. Yet surely Smith de-
serves a high place, and perhaps the highest, in any historical account
of dynamic economics. The point evidently is that, while Smith pro-


---Economics-1952-0-06.txt---
vided the rationale of the new expanding economy, which had already
broken its mercantilist fetters, he did not produce a consistent theory
of value and distribution. This Ricardo did, writing forty years later.
And so it has come about that Ricardo is known, not only as the
greatest exponent of classical economics, but as the real founder of
the classical "system." By the time the theory had passed through the
hands of his followers, particularly J. S. Mill, it had indeed achieved
a triumph. By the middle of the nineteenth century, most economists,
at least in Britain, undoubtedly were convinced that the basic prin-
ciples of economics had been fully worked out, though doubtless much
work would always remain for lesser minds to do in the "applied
fields."
III
It is interesting to reflect on the nature of this triumph. Ricardo
carried over intact Smith's philosophy of freedom. I think there can be
little doubt that this fact, together with Ricardo's attack on the land-
lords, was primarily the reason for the triumph. The policy implica-
tions were thoroughly in accord with that particular phase of British
economic development. Statesmen, industrialists, and merchants could
readily understand and heartily endorse them. Indeed, they had by
then long been living by these rules, and were doubtless delighted to
find that they had all along been right, and even scientific.
But few laymen could have known much about Ricardo's theory of
value and distribution, any more than most laymen today (who like
to divide us all into Keynesians and anti-Keynesians) have any un-
derstanding of the Keynesian system, but base their bias, for or against,
solely on what they conceive to be the policy implications. For me the
great paradox of classical economics is that, whereas it began with dy-
namics, providing the rationale for revolutionary economic changes, it
wound up in a tight system of static equilibrium theory, which in striv-
ing for logical consistency became increasingly remote from reality.
This I think we can ascribe mainly to Ricardo's theory of value and
distribution. Economics had taken a major turn in the road-a turn
away from Smith's causes of wealth, and a turn which I think has
mainly characterized economic theorizing ever since.
Immediately following his striking single-page first chapter, in which
he promises to reduce classical economics to the status of a special
case under his own general theory, Keynes begins his Chapter II, on
"The Postulates of Classical Economics," with the statement: "Most
treatises on the theory of Value and Production are primarily concerned
with the distribution of a given volume of employed resources between
different uses and with the conditions which, assuming the employ-
ment of this quantity of resources, determine their relative rewards


---Economics-1952-0-07.txt---
and the relative values of their products." In the accompanying foot-
note, he adds: "This is in the Ricardian tradition. For Ricardo ex-
pressly repudiated any interest in the amount of the national dividend,
as distinct from its distribution. In this he was assessing correctly the
character of his own theory." Keynes then quotes from Ricardo's letter
to Malthus: "Political Economy you think is an enquiry into the nature
and causes of wealth-I think it should be called an enquiry into the
laws which determine the division of the produce of industry amongst
the classes who concur in its formation. No law can be laid down re-
specting the quantity, but a tolerably correct one can be laid down
respecting proportions. Every day I am more satisfied that the former
enquiry is vain and delusive, and the latter only the true object of the
science."'
In earlier papers, covering a span now of over twenty years, I have
criticized the Ricardian assumptions, with special reference to the the-
ory of international trade-the given amounts of resources already
known and in use, the constant costs-and the conclusions which so
readily follow as to inherent equilibrating tendencies, mutually bene-
ficial to the trading countries. In view of the origins of classical eco-
nomics as an intellectual response to an expanding world, a world ex-
panding on a revolutionary scale, I have never been able to understand
how our thinking could have come to such a pass, and why as a gradu-
ate student my teachers should have sought to impress upon me that
this was the one part of classical economics which we could still ac-
cept as adequate, undamaged by time and change. To my mind, it was
never realistic, even for its own times, and certainly not for ours.
But as the quotations from Keynes indicate, and as Allyn Young
showed in his brilliant British presidential address in 1928 on "Increas-
ing Returns and Economic Progress,"4 the limitations of the Ricardian
kind of theorizing applied not only to international trade but to the
whole field of economic inquiry. It had ceased to be a study of growth
and had become static equilibrium analysis.
IV
Now I must make a second confession. In embarking upon Keynes'
General Theory, I was again for a few pages mystified and misled. In
view of the passages quoted above, I thought it was going to be a book
about the causes of wealth, based not on the given resources, already
known and in use, but on the forces and incentives which increase
them, and provide the growing real income and increased voluntary

---Economics-1952-0-08.txt---
leisure which in our kind of society should be the primary aims of
economic inquiry. But this book too turned out to be static economics,
with the difference-and this is what explains classical economics'
being a "special case"-that static equilibrium has now given way to
"comparative statics," and partial equilibrium analysis has now be-
come total equilibrium analysis. This latter, as it turned out, was what
Keynes meant by the quantity of resources employed, as distinct from
their distribution among uses and their relative rewards.
But surely the basic method is precisely on all fours with the classi-
cal analysis. It is again a purely logical contrivance which proceeds
from certain assumed relationships to conclusions which inexorably
follow so long as the assumptions are maintained inviolate and "other
things" remain unchanged. In its essentials, the Keynesian system,
like almost any consistent theory, is simple. Several times in the course
of the book, Keynes sums it up very well in a few sentences. To my
mind, it is a recast version of the quantity theory of money, which he
seeks to "push back toward becoming a theory of output as a whole."
He does this by converting the quantity equation into an income equa-
tion and applying concepts mainly derived from refinements on the
Marshallian k (demand for money), including as the really unique
feature of his theory, on which its whole validity depends, his "law"
of the propensity to consume. The core of the theory is his conclusion
that an advanced capitalistic society suffers from a combination of a
declining marginal propensity to consume and declining opportunities
for investment. This and other parts of the theory, such as the assump-
tion that costs and prices will remain constant or neutral as effective
demand rises to a full-employment level of income, represent the ef-
fect on Keynes of the Great Depression of the 'thirties; and it is not
to be wondered at that his American disciples, in particular, elaborated
his theory (though I think without adding anything not already there)
into the stagnation thesis. Once again, as with Ricardo, we have the
"complex of suitabilities to the environment."
One interesting point in common, as between Keynes and Ricardo,
is their attitude toward "laws." Ricardo had rejected an inquiry into
the quantity of wealth because no "law" could be laid down. Keynes'
analysis of the level of employment turns primarily on his assumed
"law" of the propensity to consume. Herein lies a real dilemma for
economic theorizing. We are constantly searching for "lawss" or "regu-
larities" or "normal" or "stable" relationships. Without them we are
reduced to what Bagehot called the "All Case" method of the German
historical school. But at the other extreme lies what he called the "One
Case" method of the British classical school. We are all too apt, seizing
upon the conditions of a particular period of time and applying the


---Economics-1952-0-09.txt---
simplifying processes of selection and emphasis to which economic the-
orizing seems all too prone, to come forth with a system of universal-
ized "laws," a system which is perhaps not implausible at its time of
origin, but which, as it becomes increasingly concerned about the con-
sistency of its internal logic, turns in upon itself, and grows more and
more remote from reality. This is precisely the sense in which Adam
Smith has come to be referred to as not a great economist, whereas
Ricardo was. And it was because Keynes presented a logical system,
based on a "law" which seemed not implausible in the conditions of
the 'thirties, that he was greeted as the founder of the "new" economics.
No one was better aware than Keynes of the need of qualifying
general principles to accord with the realities of particular situations.
His work, including also his earlier books, and particularly the Treatise
on Money, is full of passages in which he recognizes complicating cir-
cumstances which do not fit his theories. In the General Theory,
one of the best examples is his passage on mathematical economics, in
which he recognizes how much farther formal logic (and the unreali-
ties inherent in it) can be carried in symbols than in words.5 Or, again,
his chapter on prices, in which he gives five excellent reasons why costs
and prices will rise, and inflation emerge, well before his full-employ-
ment level of effective demand has been reached. No better analysis
could be desired as to why we experienced the inflationary conditions
of 1936-37 on a comparatively low level of employment; and nothing
further would be needed to explain the much more serious inflation of
the postwar period. But it was characteristic of Keynes-and this may
be inherent in the nature of economic theorizing-that after stating his
qualifications he always swept them aside as "not affecting the rigour"
of his conclusions. As he said of his qualifications about prices and
wages: "They have . . . a good deal of historical importance. But they
do not readily lend themselves to theoretical generalizations."6 So,
like Ricardo in his particular context, he swept them from his mind,
and proceeded with his theory.
But we have been living in a period of very rapid change. Sirnce the


---Economics-1952-0-10.txt---
war, we have been faced with a condition of inflation, seemingly as
intractable as the deflationary conditions which found expression in
Keynes' theory. We may still argue, as many Keynesians do, that the
income equation is still as applicable as it appeared to be in the begin-
ning. But to my mind this is either mysticism or the familiar confusion
between an identity equation and a law. It was over this same sort
of confusion that the long controversies about the quantity-of-money
equation became so sterile. Certainly, in recent years, Keynesian eco-
nomics has been undergoing fundamental changes. We have become
dissatisfied with the "law," as Keynes gave it to us. One form that this
has taken has been the further analysis of the consumption function.
It seems now agreed among econometricians that the "simple relation"
between income and consumption, as Keynes stated it, is unstable, and
in searching for a more complex relation which may have some prom-
ise of greater stability various hypotheses have been introduced which
contradict Keynes' own theory. For example, liquidity is now com-
monly accepted as a factor influencing consumption, whereas in
Keynes' theory it affected only investment. We have been working with
various hypotheses, including saving out of past income, liquid assets,
capital gains, the last highest income reached during a boom, expecta-
tions of future income, and other possible factors affecting the income-
consumption relation. The broad fact seems to be that we have nothing
left of this basic concept of the Keynesian theory other than that con-
sumption is an important component of income and deserves all the
study we can give it.7
One over-all criticism of Keynesian economics that seems to me
justified is that Keynes' emphasis on the demand side-his principle
of effective demand-sins quite as much in its taking for granted the
adaptability of supply as the classical economists did in their reverse
emphasis. This has interested me particularly in connection with prob-
lems of international trade adjustment, and how to effect the grand rec-
onciliation between internal full-employment policies and a country's
balance-of-payments position, by some method other than mere grants
of aid. But its applicability is general and the place to begin the correc-
tion would be in the internal economy, even if we were considering, as
Keynes mostly did, a closed economic system. Assuming, as Keynes did,
constant technique, and confining himself to short-period analysis,
with no analysis at all of economic processes-how we get from one
state of static equilibrium to another-Keynes' theory has always


---Economics-1952-0-11.txt---
seemed to me peculiarly inapt as a starting point for an analysis of
growth and change, and in this regard inferior to the classical theory it
was intended to supplant.
It is not surprising therefore that one major feature of contemporary
economic thinking is the attempt to dynamize the Keynesian statics.
We now have, for example, from ardent Keynesians, books with such
titles as "Towards a Dynamic Economics," which on inspection turn
out to be business-cycle theory. Here again, I must make a confession.
I had thought that while comparatively few theorists, notably Schumpe-
ter and Marx, had tried to do anything with long-run theories of
change-long-run change has been left mainly to the historians and the
statisticians-the business-cycle theorists had for half a century and
more been concerned with the dynamics of short-run change. I had not
thought it unfortunate that, as business-cycle theory developed, its
relation to classical equilibrium theory had become increasingly tenu-
ous. This seemed to me one of the major ways in which economic
thinking had been seeking to come once again in touch with the reali-
ties of economic life; and one of my main questions about Keynes had
been whether he had done economics a service or a disservice in at-
tempting to push the analysis of economic fluctuations back into an
abstract framework of equilibrium theory. As I said in my paper four
years ago, I hoped and believed that we would find ourselves bringing
back the things he temporarily submerged, the study of the processes
of short- and long-run change, the emphasis on growth and productivity,
and on price-cost-profit relationships.
Now this process is in full swing, and classes in the colleges that
earlier had dealt mainly with Keynes' General Theory are wrestling
with the business-cycle theories of Hicks, Harrod, and other leading
Keynesians. In the process, Keynesian thinking has undergone further
pronounced changes. It comes with rather a start to find men, who
probably still regard themselves as Keynesians, or as having drawn
their main inspiration from him, writing books about the economic
characteristics of an expanding economy, and to find, as is true of both
the Hicks and the Harrod versions of the cycle,8 an assumption of a
rising floor of autonomous investment. Surely this is a far cry from
the 'thirties. It is true that the language remains, and the income equa-
tion still stands, as it always must as an identity equation, but I am
not able to reconcile the assumption of a rising level of autonomous
investment, providing ever higher bottoms for depressions, and spring-
boards for bigger booms. To explain the booms, induced investment


---Economics-1952-0-12.txt---
and the acceleration principle are assigned the major role.9 To make
the transformation complete (but still presumably in the name of
Keynesian economics), Hicks leaves out money entirely, except for a
couple of supplementary chapters which he clearly regards as of very
secondary importance. What now has become of Keynes' effort "to
push back" the theory of money toward becoming a "theory of output
as a whole"? Clearly, the new environment of the postwar period has
sent us upon a new search for an acceptable "complex of suitabilities";
and Keynes' theory, as theory, is becoming rapidly submerged.
One of the most interesting aspects is the treatment of investment.
What, some of the critics are now asking, is autonomous investment?
Is there any such thing really? How distinguish between autonomous
investment and induced investment? Is there not a continuous inter-
play?10 It there any such thing as a rising rock-bottom consisting purely
of autonomous investment? And does it not seem ironic that in dynamiz-
ing Keynesian theory we find it necessary to transform his whole treat-
ment of investment, and turn it round and make it walk in the opposite
direction from that which he had assumed? In Keynes' own theory,
there was no place for induced investment. Investment was the inde-
pendent factor, tending to decline, and consumption was the induced
factor, dependent upon income, in accordance with the fundamental
law of the propensity to consume.
V
Economic theorizing seems to me pointless unless it is aimed at what
to do. All the great theorists, I think, have had policy as their central
interest, even if their policy were merely laissez faire. Keynes' greatest
virtue, I have always felt, was his interest in economic policy; and it
has been said, despite the paucity of discussion of specific policies in
the General Theory, that he started with what he regarded as the policy
requirements of the time and built his theory around them. I find this
quite understandable, and my main objection, as outlined above, is to
the pretension to universality which seems to be the inescapable bane
of theorizing.
We do not escape this bane when we turn from "general theory" to

---Economics-1952-0-13.txt---
some more limited field. I have long since ceased to be interested in the
theory of international trade; and I have long thought it naive to speak
of the theory of the business cycle. I strongly sympathize with Trevor
Swan, the Australian economist, in his recent review of Hicks' book."
Hicks begins his book in his characteristically disarming way, describ-
ing it as a "progress report," with "weak links"; but it soon becomes
apparent that his hope is that this may be thte theory of the trade cycle,
the next stage (after the theorists have approved) being "the concern
of the statisticians, econometrists, and economic historians" to do the
detailed verifying. This is a not unfamiliar division of labor suggested
by the theorists. Swan, in concluding one of the best criticisms of the
book I have seen, says: "I suspect that the search for the theory of the
trade cycle . . . is the economist's equivalent of the search for the elixir
of life or the philosopher's stone." But "each hopeless effort adds its
quota of knowledge and understanding.'2 If the truth of the trade cycle
is many, policy directed against the trade cycle must reckon not with
one, but with all its theories. Is it not time . . . to forget the glittering
prize of achieving the theory of the trade cycle, and concentrate upon
the systematic and pedestrian attempt to discover how the economy
works and grows in its parts and as a whole?""3
We do not escape the limitations of the systematizing process when
we embark on theories of long-run growth and change, as Schumpeter
and Marx have done. This, however, does seem to me the kind of
theorizing we stand most in need of, and I regret that it would go far
beyond the limits of my paper to discuss it.
I come back then to the question with which I began my paper. Are
we, through our economic policies, making headway toward doing the

---Economics-1952-0-14.txt---
leading, or are we merely the victims of our changing environment, des-
perately hanging on and seeking, after the event, to rationalize as best
we can? I have spent a good part of my life, half inside and half out-
side the university, but trying in both places to deal with questions
of economic policy. My difficulties may be due in part to an innate atti-
tude of mind, which seems always to have included a vein of skepticism,
and a desire to try to look all round a problem rather than to plunge
forthwith for the bold solution. But the real point of my paper is that,
as I think, the difficulties are largely due to the kinds of reservations
I have been making about the dependability of theory as a guide to
policy.
In any event, I cannot remember when policy questions did not pre-
sent themselves to me as dilemmas, which I would have to go outside
formal theory to try to get my bearings on, and even then would find
very heavy going. About the practical usefulness of theory, I have often
felt like the man who stammered and finally learned to say, "Peter
Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers," but found it hard to work
into conversation. I will not discuss whether this attitude of mind makes
for good or bad policy making. Probably we need a mixture of minds
and temperaments and biases to function effectively. But I will say that
I think the most dangerous policy maker is the man who knows the
answer, because he feels he can take it literally from his theory.
VI
I had not meant in this paper to deal primarily with specific ques-
tions of policy, but some comments may have illustrative significance.
We are again living in a period of revolutionary economic change. In
the domestic field, I have been mainly interested in monetary and fiscal
policy. I am hopeful that the sessions on these subjects in our present
program will add to our understanding, and I hope too that the forth-
coming Patman sub-committee hearings, following on those of the
Douglas sub-committee two years ago, will throw further light on the
interrelated postwar problems of monetary control and debt manage-
ment.
But I must confess that, despite all the discussion and the accumu-
lated experience here and abroad since the First World War, this range
of problems still impresses me as being one of the great dilemmas, po-
litical as well as economic. There are few economists today who favor
unadulterated laissez faire. But about the kind and degree of interven-
tion there is endless debate. In our kind of economy-apart from war
or defense-the main emphasis has been on general monetary and fiscal
controls. But central banking in its heyday did not prevent the booms
of the 'twenties or the Great Depression of the early 'thirties. The re-


---Economics-1952-0-15.txt---
sult was a shift in emphasis toward fiscal controls. I still believe that
the first phase of this shift, which we called pump-priming, and which
involved a combination of monetary control and a cyclically unbal-
anced budget, represented, if we could have held to it, the most promis-
ing approach. But this seems to me to have been a case, par excellence,
of theory's being carried along by its own internal momentum to the
point where fiscal policy threatened to submerge monetary policy,
without having proved its own effectiveness. Deficits, instead of being
merely cyclical, became continuous; monetary policy became burdened
with the dual and conflicting r8les of stabilizing the debt as well as
stabilizing the economy, and the emphasis on the former r6le increas-
ingly overshadowed the latter. This was the kind of problem that I
felt some economists overlooked when they belittled the significance
of an internal debt on the ground that "we owe it to ourselves.""4
We can only speculate as to what the further developments might
have been but for the war. My own view was that we had had one of
the longest and greatest recoveries on record from the Great Depres-
sion, and that, though we had let it get out of hand in 1936-37 on a
still low level of employment, the new recovery from the steep but
short depression of 193 7-38 might well have carried us to a more normal
level of output and employment, and have provided the setting for a
more effective coordination of monetary and fiscal policies.
But the war greatly changed the dimensions and even the character
of the problem. By attempting to freeze the pattern of interest rates and
by allowing automatic access by banks to central bank reserves, we
found that it is not possible to freeze interest rates except in one direc-
tion, and that longer term rates fall toward the shortest and the debt
is freely monetized, as bankers and others "play the pattern." Since
the war, the great problem has been how to restore some effective de-
gree of freedom to the monetary authority to perform its role as an
economic stabilizer, with due regard also for maintaining a properly
functioning government securities market. This is the problem of mone-
tary policy and debt management. I shall not attempt to discuss it
here-it is being dealt with in two of our sessions"-except to say that
after slow progress earlier we may now be witnessing something like a
monetary renaissance, with the Treasury-Federal Reserve accord of
March 1951 unpegging the long-term rate, and with a demonstration of

---Economics-1952-0-16.txt---
the security market's ability to stand pretty much on its own feet in
December 1951-with a minimum of support through open-market
operations-and to stage a revival of rediscounting up to nearly a bil-
lion dollars, for the first time in eighteen years, and with no visible
signs of panic. These seem long steps toward a revival of a flexible in-
terest-rate policy, without which no general monetary control seems
to me possible.
One source of confusion still in our thinking is the distinction be-
tween the flexibility of interest rates and the level of rates. Many a
red herring has been drawn across this trail. When the emphasis was
greatest on fiscal policy and deficit financing in the late 'thirties, some
economists emphasized most the level of rates, and this emphasis has
persisted. One can trace it all the way from Keynes' "euthanasia of
the rentier" to some of the recent statements by the Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers. Keynes changed his mind, and almost the last time I
saw him was complaining that the easy money policy had been greatly
overdone and interest rates were too low both in England and here.
When I suggested that this was being done in his name, and that he
ought to write another book, he was much amused, and said he did
think he ought to keep one jump ahead."6 What most interests me is not
the level of rates-the present level may well be the long-run average
-but the flexibility of rates. I cannot sympathize with the view that we
had better not alter rates because any upward shift might be perma-
nent, and that to avoid such a shift we should fight inflation entirely
by other means."1
Despite, however, some recent steps in the right direction, the prob-
lem of coordinating debt management and monetary control still re-
mains a dilemma. We shall be at best for some time in the pioneering
stage, working under conditions for which earlier monetary theory and
policy provide little guidance. To pose the problem as merely one of
defining spheres of jurisdiction (though that is not unimportant) is to

---Economics-1952-0-17.txt---
miss the true nature of the dilemma. It can be solved, if at all, only
through coordination of policies, covering a range that goes even be-
yond the Treasury and the Federal Reserve System. We have, I think,
made important progress from the thinking of the 'twenties, which
ran mainly in terms of controlling investment through the effects of
interest rates on borrowers, and which assumed that banks would al-
ways be "loaned up." While we should not swing to the other extreme
-the borrower will always be important-the conditions of the 'thirties,
characterized by large excess reserves and a mounting public debt,
shifted the emphasis toward the lender; and, as I said earlier, it was
under these conditions (the pump-priming phase) that we began to
appreciate the possibilities of the combination of deficits and easy
money as instruments of recovery.
A debt, however, of the present size presents new problems-prob-
lems of debt structure and of debt holding, as between bank and
non-bank investors, problems of how. to control the great institutional
investors, such as the insurance companies, while at the same time
making efficient use of them for Treasury financing, problems as be-
tween marketable and non-marketable debt, of finding proper instru-
ments of debt for small savers, problems of achieving a correct pattern
of maturities, so that the debt will not pile up unduly in the short or
long or intermediate sectors.8 All of these questions in the sphere of
debt management have a bearing on the effectiveness of monetary
control, for the less the debt is capable of self-management, the greater
becomes the need for central bank support of it, and the more mone-
tary control as an economic stabilizer becomes submerged by the con-
flicting need of supporting the government security market. Thus in-
evitably it is a dual problem rather than a problem of jurisdiction.
My mind for a long time has run chiefly on the thought that with
a large debt, widely held, small changes in interest rates could be ef-
fective in creating uncertainty, preventing the monetization of the
debt and "playing the pattern"; and that, combined with a proper fiscal
policy, such a policy of flexible interest rates could be developed into
an effective instrument of economic control. But without adequate
fiscal cooperation, the task, to say the least, would be most discourag-
ing. As experience since the war has taught us, even when the budget
is balanced, monetary control has to step aside temporarily when the

---Economics-1952-0-18.txt---
Treasury is engaged in refunding operations, and the main enmphasis
has to be placed on providing an adequate security market. It needs to
be emphasized therefore that, though we may have been making some
progress recently, we shall be facing quite a different set of circum-
stances when, as now seems most probable, the Treasury begins again to
incur substantial deficits. Shall we then be forced back into the frozen
pattern of rates, and shall we find ourselves again providing automatic
access by the banks (and others) to central bank reserves? Though we
did last year unpeg the long-term rate by the Treasury-Federal Reserve
accord, we did it largely by converting the long-term marketable debt
into non-marketable debt.'9 It remains to be seen what we shall find
ourselves doing once we get into substantial deficit financing. This is
what I meant earlier by the need for a wider coordination of policies.
The size of the budget and of the deficits depends upon Executive and
Congressional action.
VII
What seems certain is that we need a more rounded monetary-fiscal
policy, in which each part plays its proper role. The experience of other
countries as well as our own has indicated that fiscal policy by itself is
by no nmeans the cure-all that in the first flush of enthusiasm it was
thought to be. For one thing it seems highly improbable that the Con-
gress, in any country, would ever accord as great a degree of discretion
and flexibility-or could possibly-as in the monetary field. Through
the use of an increasingly progressive individual income tax and the
corporate income tax, we have achieved a substantial degree of built-in
flexibility on the revenue side of the budget; perhaps what we most
need now is a broader and more flexible use of regressive taxes (in the
form of indirect taxation) if we really want to use taxation contra-
cyclically. Since the war, we have, up to now, avoided deficits, and in
the earlier years have even had surpluses. We have moderately reduced
the federal debt, though this was partly due to the fact that we had
previotusly overborrowed for war purposes. But these achievements,
noteworthy though they are in the circumstances, have been due
mainly to the retention of taxation at virtually its wartime level and,
since Korea, to an increase in the tax burden by some fifteen billion
dollars. The level of expenditures has remained high and intractable,

---Economics-1952-0-19.txt---
despite vigorous efforts by some Congressmen in both parties to reduce
less essential or wasteful expenditure; and now, since Korea, it is
climbing back toward a level not much below that of the war period.
There is no real indication in this postwar experience that we are mak-
ing progress toward a truly contra-cyclical use of fiscal policy; though
perhaps, in view of the extraordinary circumstances of the cold war and
now rearmament, such an achievement was hardly to be expected.
One aspect of fiscal policy that I felt was underemphasized in the
discussions of the 'thirties was the dangers that may be inherent in
the growing size of the budget as distinct from its variability. Keynes,
for example, said in 1940: "It appears to be politically impossible for
a capitalistic democracy to organize expenditure on the scale necessary
to make the grand experiment which would prove my case . . . except
in war conditions."20 This point of view was widely prevalent among
American economists, who laid our failure to achieve full employment
in the 'thirties to the fact that the yearly deficits were only three or
four billion dollars instead of ten or fifteen billions. As the war drew
to a close, there was much misgiving among government economists, as
well as academic, that the reduction of expenditures from the wartime
level would recreate large-scale unemployment. Predictions to this
effect were freely made and postwar policies were based upon them,
reinforcing the inflationary tendencies that have since proved so in-
tractable. This whole experience in prediction-one of the most strik-
ing failures in the history of economics -was clearly due to the
Keynesian bias in favor of large public expenditure. It was accom-
panied by such a show of "scientific" technique, with much making of
mathematical models, projections, and regression lines (and much scoff-
ing at business men as "armchair economists") that the plain man,
though he might distrust the conclusions, could scarcely be blamed for
being bewildered and misled.
As I have indicated, the bias toward high public expenditure tends to
load the task of contra-cyclical variation onto the revenue side of the
budget. Instead of the diamond-shaped pattern of change which the
budget should have, with the two sides moving in opposite directions,
we tend to have a rising burden of taxation to counter the persistent
upward tendency of expenditures. Such a process, if long continued,
would be likely not only to undermine any true contra-cyclical budg-
etary policy but to change the character of the economy. The sheer size

---Economics-1952-0-20.txt---
of the budget raises serious questions about the viability of the economy
-its vitality, its productivity, its flexibility and adaptability-to a
far greater extent than was appreciated in the 'thirties. We tend to
accept maladjustments as a sort of force majeure which can be over-
come only by increasing doses of public intervention. The economy
becomes harder to stabilize, and budgetary policy becomes a less effec-
tive stabilizing instrument.
I have long sympathized with the thesis of Colin Clark, the Aus-
tralian economist, that a burden of taxation beyond some percentage
of the gross national product (he puts it at 25 per cent) turns upon
itself and, instead of having the deflationary effects intended, becomes
an engine of inflation, partly through pushing up wages and other
costs and thus pushing up prices to the point where the tax burden,
in real terms, has been brought back within the limits of tolerance, and
even more through undermining incentives to produce and to save. The
Cripps budget of 1948, which created a substantial surplus, was re-
garded as a miracle of austerity and self-discipline in the harsh con-
ditions confronting Britain. But there are now many British econo-
mists who question whether the losses in incentives to workers, business
men, and investors have not more than offset the deflationary effects in-
tended. There are now suggestions in Britain that the way to get more
work is to tax-exempt wages for specific kinds of work or beyond some
standard schedule of work-time. In countries like Britain and Sweden,
and even here, rising corporate taxation is accompanied by rising de-
preciation allowances which also tend to undermine the intended effect.
Even we discuss various forms of tax exemption, and make proposals
for legislation, in order to get more work, or more output of particular
kinds, or more saving (and more investment of savings in government
securities). It seems generally agreed that the British tax burden has
reached and probably passed the limits of tolerance; and it seems
more than a coincidence that the disillusionment about the big budget
is being accompanied by a return to general monetary control in Britain
and many other European countries.
As I said earlier, we clearly need a better-rounded monetary-fiscal
policy; and failing this, we should recognize that the next turn of the
road would be toward direct controls, the alternative, in the present
context of events, being more careful scrutiny as to the amount of infla-
tionary pressure the economy can tolerate. One of the main fears in
Britain today, for example, is that the rearmament program, if it
overtaxes British capacity, may result in permanently fastening upon
Britain the direct controls which since the war they have been seeking
to relax, at least internally. The American answer traditionally has
been to seek relief through increased output. In the war, we got a


---Economics-1952-0-21.txt---
wholly new vision of the expansibility of our economy. But we must
not forget that the extraordinary expansion of output in the war, though
it was an important factor in postponing inflation, did not prevent our
getting it later on. Perhaps equally impressive has been the expansion
of output since Korea, even though the defense program seems to be
lagging in some important respects. Industrial production in 1951 was
10 per cent above 1950, and 25 per cent above 1949; it surpassed
every other year except the two peak war years. Total output of goods
and services, in real terms, was larger than even in the peak war year
1944. This is all the more noteworthy, in that we embarked upon the
rearmament program from an already very high level of employment
and production, whereas at the outset of the war there was still large
unutilized capacity.
Since recovering from the initial shock of Korea, and the later Chi-
nese intervention, we have managed to maintain a precarious balance
between inflationary and deflationary forces. How long this balance
may continue will depend largely upon two factors, the size and speed
of the rearmament program, and the public behavior as to saving.
Saving, from a low point of 2.2 per cent of disposable income after taxes
in the buying panic after Korea, rose last year to about 10 per cent.
Against this anti-inflationary factor (and the further one that we may
not soon repeat the great increase in inventories that followed Korea),
we have to set the size and speed of the armament program, combined
with a continuing high volume of investment. Though I am of course
quite incompetent on the military side, it must be emphasized that
this will be our most serious economic problem, if we are not to dissi-
pate our defense effort through renewed inflation; and if this is a diffi-
cult problem for us, it is of course much more so for our Allies. We
should not rely too much on mere increase in output. Though less-
serious than a scarcity inflation, the expansion of output is an inflation-
ary process, in that incomes are paid out before goods appear in the
market; and military expansion means that incomes are paid out to
produce goods not available for civilian consumption. Unless the pro-
gram is kept within feasible bounds, or unless we can count on in-
creased saving (than which nothing is less predictable), we may find
ourselves undoing with one hand what we are trying to do with the
other, and also creating a grave prospect of recession when we come to
the period of levelling off the rearmament program.
VIII
If domestic problems raise questions about the relation of theory to
policy, this is even more the case in the international sphere. Since,
however, this paper is already long, and my paper at last year's meet-


---Economics-1952-0-22.txt---
ing was on this subject,22 my comments will be brief. Throughout its
history, international trade has played a leading role in economic
growth and change. In modern times, it has been a process of growth
from a center in which the countries outside the center have owed their
development (and often their very existence) to the movement of
factors, as well as of goods, from the center; and the center countries
have in turn owed their further development primarily to this move-
ment. Such a world was inevitably heterogeneous, with countries in
markedly different stages of development. Any theory of international
trade which does not approach the subject matter in this way must
have very serious limitations as a guide to policy. Here particularly,
we should feel the inadequacies of static equilibrium analysis.
One of the greatest paradoxes of recent times is that, while since
1914 the world has been in a state of profound and virtually continuous
disturbance, formal international trade theory has continued to empha-
size equilibrating tendencies. This has been true even of non-Keynesian
theory, but even more true of the KeyneSian type of analysis of inter-
national trade adjustment in terms of income. There has been, I think,
a tendency to run away from the actual problems by putting them
under an expansible umbrella labelled "short run" or ascribing them
to wars and periods of transition. The broad fact is that after nearly forty
years we find ourselves in a very different kind of world, with most
of the problems still remaining to be solved, and new ones continually
appearing.
Though I cannot sympathize with the tendency of theorists to throw
out everything that does not fit long-run theory under a general label
of "short run," I do feel that we have been troubled all along by two
basic problems, one of which is relatively short run and the other secu-
lar. But the main point about them is that they are interrelated in the
sense that the former would probably not exist (or recur so persistently)
but for the latter. Since the end of the First World War, much has
been said about maldistribution of reserves. This was Keynes' com-
plaint in his Tract on Monetary Reform in 1923, when he said that
the world's gold was buried in the vaults of Washington. There has
been a persistent bias toward gold absorption by this country. Owing
in large part to this bias, it has not been possible either to restore the
gold standard or to work out any other feasible international system.
The International Monetary Fund has up to now been almost wholly
inoperative, and it remains to be seen how successful will be the much
more limited exDeriment of the European Payments Union set up


---Economics-1952-0-23.txt---
under the Marshall Plan, unless some provision is made for feeding
dollars into it. The maldistribution of reserves has played a major role
in the deterioration of multilateral trade, which even before the Second
World War had become pronounced. This is a short-rtun problem only
in the sense that it has given rise to frequent short-run crises. Since the
last war, European reserves, and particularly British reserves, have dis-
played a biennial pattern, with crises in every odd year. There is some
truth in the view that if European, and particularly British, reserves
were larger, some of these storms could be ridden out. The alternative,
as experience has already shown, is further emphasis on exchange con-
trols and other discriminatory practices, and on further exchange-rate
adjustments, and, quite probably, further deterioration of multilateral
trade.23
These problems are symptomatic of deeper-seated maladjustments
arising out of long-run cumulative changes in the relative positions of
the trading countries. The great commercial revolution for which Adam
Smith provided the rationale re-made the internal economies of the
Western European countries. This was the great movement from the
center. It bestowed on those countries enormous advantages. Through
export of capital, labor, and entrepreneurship, as well as goods, they
were able to concentrate capital and labor on a small amount of land,
resulting in a population density now four times ours, in increasing
return industries and to buy the products of increasing cost industries
from abroad. But in doing so, they have become committed to a par-
ticular organization of their productive effort. As such countries lose
their initial advantages and foreign markets are cut off or seriously
reduced through the growing productivity advantages of other countries
developed in the process, it becomes increasingly difficult to find alter-
natives, either domestic or foreign. This is the basis of the urge for
European integration, which has been present under some form or
name ever since the Marshall Plan began. Whether we have been
making any headway with this problem in its long-run aspects, as
against mere reconstruction from war, still remains a much unsettled
question; and one now confused anew by the rearmament program.
Meanwhile the United States, which in earlier stages of development
absorbed European labor and capital and provided an expanding
market for European manufactures in exchange for our food and raw
materials, to our great mutual benefit, has in its later stages of develop-
ment presented a growing threat of chronic world imbalance. Occupy-

---Economics-1952-0-24.txt---
ing a great and diversified land area, the United States has developed
a rounded economy, marked by rapid technological progress, on a scale
never previously witnessed. It produces over 40 per cent of the world's
manufactures, but still relies predominantly on home supplies of food
and raw materials. Over the last hundred years, our imports have de-
clined from about 10 per cent to less than 5 per cent of our national
income, compared with percentages of 10 to 30 or higher for Western
European countries. Since the 1870's, the composition of our foreign
trade has undergone pronounced changes, with imports of manufactures
showing a large relative decline and exports of manufactures a large
increase (from about one-seventh of our exports to about one-half).
In the process, the share of Europe in our trade has undergone a
marked secular decline, and the pattern of our trade has shifted toward
the non-European world. Though the wars have undoubtedly accentu-
ated these changes, they were already apparent before 1914. They
raise a question whether Western Europe, if much more vigorous meas-
ures toward increasing productivity are not taken (and it must be re-
membered that increasing productivity is a race-this country cannot
be expected to stand still), is not in danger of being pushed into a back-
water.
Meanwhile a great change appears to be under way in the relation
of industrial production and trade to foods and raw materials. For
perhaps three-quarters of a century, the problem had been whether
the industrial countries could absorb the food and raw materials which
they had been instrumental in developing in other countries, on terms
of trade tolerable to the latter. Now the imbalance appears to be swing-
ing the other way. Owing partly to the expansion of industrial output
in Europe under the Marshall Plan, and even more to our own absorp-
tion of raw materials (in the consumer durable goods industries as well
as in the capital goods industries), there is a general world problem of
availability of supplies. Again, this problem has been much accentuated
by the rearmament program; but it was becoming apparent even before
Korea. World industrial production since 1938 has grown by some 50
per cent, while the output of food and raw materials has at most in-
creased by 10 per cent. Some experts have estimated that, apart from
the United States, the world's food production is now lower than before
the war; and if we take out a few items, such as petroleum and alumi-
num, this may well be true also of the raw materials.
This problem of the changing balance in production points up the
need, on the economic side, of an effective program for the under-
developed countries. It comes, however, at a time when sharply diver-
gent views are developed as to the purposes of international investment
(or grants). The less developed countries, with their recently won


---Economics-1952-0-25.txt---
sovereignty and their growing social welfare consciousness, often do not
welcome the nineteenth-century kind of foreign investment, which they
regard as "exploitation," a process of extraction at low cost of what the
industrial countries wanted, while doing little or nothing toward creat-
ing a better rounded economy and a better scale of living. Thus, the
urge for a mixed economy collides with the world need for primary pro-
duction. Moreover, the number of countries is limited from which good
results could be expected from any large-scale program of investment.
Probably what we need in many countries is pilot experiments, such as
the International Bank might undertake (and has already); and in
any event any general investment program would have to be planned or
controlled by governments, not only because private capital is still
timid (after the mistakes of the 'twenties) but because we would not
otherwise know how the parts might fit together.
These are surely not short-run problems. Nor are they problems for
which good policy answers can be derived from formal theory.
IX
As I look back over my paper, I have some misgivings. The discus-
sion of current problems has taken more space than I intended, and it
may well be a mistake to try to cover such large areas of policy in what
can at best be only thumb-nail sketches. It may well be too that some
readers wlho might not be unsympathetic to the general thesis of this
paper, and might want to join me in some of my confessions, may fall
out with me when it comes to the specific policies. For I have often
felt that, whether we agree or disagree in our formal theorizing, it is
when we come to policy making that we really find out how we stand.
But in any case, I did feel the need of attempting some kind of illustra-
tion of what I was driving at in the earlier portions of the paper.
Now that I have somewhat eased my mind of some things that have
long been on it about economic theory and method and the purposes of
economic inquiry, I should like somewhat to smooth the troubled waters
-though I do hope I have troubled them. If any theorist takes my
remarks too much to heart, I can only say that I never get much beyond
being in a quandary. As Keynes said, without theory we are "lost in
the woods." We must of course have hypotheses for testing. But it is a
close question whether it is any worse to be lost in the woods than in
one's theory, pursuing its internal consistency to the point where con-
tact with reality is lost. This, I think, is the biggest of all our dilemmas,
and there may be no escape from it. I do not pretend to have provided
an answer; but it should do us no harm to be aware of the limitations
under which we work.

---Economics-1954-0-03.txt---
I
What I am going to say might have most appropriately been given as
an introduction to the program of wllich we are now in the midst. On
the other hand, for reasons whichl will appear, I wish I could have
waited until I could have heard all the papers and their discussion. The
program grew out of my feeling that we needed very badly to have a
cooperative look at the nature of our economic system as it exists now
just past the midcentury. This feeling has been growing now for the
thirty years during which I have wrestled as an academic with the com-
plexities of economic theory in lecture and in seminar.
This feeling has been accentuated, not only as I have had the oppor-
tunity to observe the operation of economic systems fundamentally
different from our own, such as the Soviet and the Nazi economic sys-
tems, but as I have observed, somewhat less intimately, economic
systems which represented lesser divergencies from our own, such as
that of the United Kingdom under the Labour government and those
of the Scandinavian countries.
When I went to Russia immediately before the onset of the great de-
pression, our own economy was still generally considered the epitome of
capitalism. Soviet Russia, by contrast, was the only country with any
significant degree of industrialization which no longer adhered to the
capitalistic system. What are we to say of the situation today? Is
capitalism stronger in the world now than then, or weaker? Have the na-
tional economies of the world become more highly "statized" or is there
a recrudescence both of competition and of laissez faire in the world?


---Economics-1954-0-04.txt---
To ask such questions is to show at once how fundamentally times,
terms and concepts have changed. To begin with, the economic system
of Soviet Russia, together with its political, social and cultural mani-
festations, cannot be considered socialistic in any sense which would have
been considered legitimate by Utopian socialist philosophers nor indeed
by Marxian socialist theoreticians of pre-Soviet times. This Soviet so-
ciety is far more authoritarian and less egalitarian than our own and the
workers in it have far less control over the conditions of their employ-
ment. The Soviet economy is indeed collectivist and the antithesis of a
capitalistic laissez-faire economic system but it cannot be described by
the term socialistic if that term is to have its traditional meaning.
If the Soviet system cannot be considered socialistic, what of the
economic systems of other important industrialized countries such as
the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy and Japan, Canada and
the United States? Can they be considered any longer capitalistic as
that term has been understood in the past?
Here, too, we find complexity. It is not merely that it is difficult to
forecast political-economic trends in these countries. The problem of
analysis has a much more baffling aspect. It is this: How can one tell
when an economic system has undergone fundamental change? What
basic differences are there, for example, between an industry which
has been nationalized and one which has not? You will recall Geoffrey
Crowther's story about the British civil servant who explained to the
visiting American that under the Labour government there were two
categories of industries in the United Kingdom. One category, he said,
comprised most industries, those which were still in private and corp-
orate hands but over which the government nevertheless exercised a
large measure of control. The other category comprised industries which
had been nationalized, over which the government had no control at all!
Those of us who have served our own government and who will recall
difficulties in dealing with other government officials as compared with
the sometimes lesser difficulties of an official clothed with the authority
of government in dealing with executives of business corporations will,
I think, find a real germ of truth in this nonsense.
What is not nonsense is to question how basically the organization
and functioning of the railways, the coal mines or the steel industry in
the United Kingdom, for example, differs under nationalization from
that under private, corporate, ownership.
One might question whether the capitalistic system in the process of
evolution through its corporate form has not developed toward the
collectivist form, moving towards the point where transfiguration would
be complete and the two would become virtually indistinguishable. This
evolution, whether or not it is legitimate to characterize it in such ex-


---Economics-1954-0-05.txt---
treme terms, was eventually reflected, on the theoretical level, in the
development by Chamberlin, Robinson, Stackelberg, and many others
of the theories of imperfect and monopolistic competition and oligopoly
which from the late 'twenties onward appeared to have modified, elab-
orated and complicated our older and simpler concepts of competition
and monopoly.
This development reflected recognition that the pricing process,
whether for goods or for the factors of production was no longer carried
on simply between individuals in the traditional free market. Instead the
capitalistic economy had become increasingly corporate and organiza-
tional.
My main concern tonight is with the question of the nature of our
own economic system. If we could at one time call our economic system
capitalism, meaning by that a system characterized by private property,
individual enterprise, laissez faire and competition, and if we still call
our system capitalism, have we changed the meaning of the word? In
other words, have these characteristic economic institutions of capital-
ism been fundamentally impaired or altered?
At least the New Dealers among us were in nearly complete agree-
ment by the time the great depression had reached its depth in the early
nineteen-thirties that American industry was no longer characteristi-
cally competitive, even if some still believed that old-style competition
could and should be restored. Others believed instead that since compe-
tition no longer satisfactorily regulated the economy, laissez faire might
have to be abandoned and comprehensive government controls substi-
tuted.
The mass unemployment of the great depression was considered by
New Dealers the tangible evidence of the failure of the imperfectly
competitive system to function effectively. It was, of course, this mass
unemployment which was responsible for the political support which
the New Deal obtained in urban areas. Insufficiency of total wage pay-
ments of unorganized or ineffectively organized workers to purchase the
products of corporate industry was considered a cause of "scarcity in
the midst of plenty." Rigid prices for manufactured goods while farm
products had to be sold in a competitive market were also held respon-
sible for the deficiency in purchasing power reflected in the unsatis-
factory relation between the prices of industrial goods and the incomes
of farmers and laborers available for the purchase of these goods. This
was and largely still is the rationale for the New Deal system of price
supports in agriculture.
If there was any doubt as to whether the economic system was char-
acterized by competition and by laissez faire before the New Deal
there seemed little doubt in the minds of most conservatives, that this


---Economics-1954-0-06.txt---
was certainly not true after the New Dealers had once been allowed to
get their hands on the economy. (It is only fair to state that I was one
of the economists who advised the government during the first years of
the New Deal.) The measures which the New Deal brought into being
in agriculture, in industry and in monetary and budgetary policy were
generally denounced by conservative businessmen and orthodox econo-
mists as inconsistent with the principles of laissez-faire capitalism. It
was earnestly argued that if continued they were bound to destroy both
democracy and capitalism.
A decade later I made a staff study, for the Committee for Economic
Development, on the relation between foreign trade and domestic em-
ployment in connection with the possibilities of removing barriers to
international trade. A comparison between international trade under
the assumption of exchange between free economies, and international
trade under the assumption of exchange between free economies, on the
one hand, with stated-controlled economies, on the other, thus became
relevant. Could we, however, speak of an economy as being free if the
government permitted monopolistic arrangements within the various
industries of the country? Some of our American industrialists in
C.E.D. insisted that in this sense the British economy was no longer a
free enterprise economy by the time of the outbreak of WVorld War II,
due to the wide-scale development of trade associations and cartel-type
arrangements, towards which the Conservative government of the
United Kingdom took quite a benevolent attitude. By contrast they
argued that our economy was a free economy because of our antitrust
legislation and its administration and the general spirit of free enter-
prise among American industrialists.
Some of the economists associated with C.E.D. decided to see what
some of the young British economists who represented their govern-
ment in wartime Washington would have to say to this. Consequently,
we invited a number of them to dinner. When the question was first put
to them, they refused to confirm the thesis that British industry was not
characteristically competitive. Indeed they never did explicitly so agree.
Finally, however, one of their number said: "Well, to tell the truth I
think there is a good deal to the thesis. Domestically it would not be
true to say that British industry was essentially competitive by the time
World War II broke out. However, that does not mean that competition
would not exist on the international market for steel, for example, since
the British steel industry would still be competing with the German,
the French and the American steel industries."
We had also invited Gunnar Myrdal, who was in this country at
that time, to the meeting. He said to me, "It may be true that
even though domestic competition had disappeared some sort of compe-


---Economics-1954-0-07.txt---
tition might still exist between the organized industries of the different
countries. God knows, however, that would be a very different kind of
competition from the sort which economists have had in mind when
they have used the term in the past."
His statement has relevancy to the general subject of competition
and monopoly and the degree and variants of these terms. Not many
would maintain that competition among the few is likely to be essenti-
ally the same as competition among many or that the theoretical analy-
sis essential to understanding either will be the same. Indeed, it is likely
to be profoundly and basically different and the circumstance that one
may still quite logically use the term competition to apply to two such
differing economic mechanisms is at the root of a lot of our problems in
price theory. This point is well illustrated by the title of Fellner's book,
Competition Among the Few.
It was about this time that I began to realize that American indus-
trialists were no longer so unanimously claiming that laissez faire and
the whole free enterprise system had been destroyed by the Roosevelt
Administration, since they were so vigorously championing the virtues
of the existing free enterprise system a decade after the inauguration of
the New Deal. (Of course, none of us is consistent, and the same man
who points with pride to the glories of the vigorous American system of
laissez fatre and competition may the next day be mourning at its bier,
the while he listens to some Marc Antony seeking to stir up the populace
to take vengeance on the assassins of the system.)
A couple of years later, with the New Deal still unrepealed, it was
the "progressives" among those who influenced our economic policy in
occupied Germany who, perhaps with tongue in cheek, insisted that
cartels should be abolished and that a competitive economy should be
set up on the United States model! Many of this extreme wing of
opinion had been insisting that in the United States we had monopoly
capitalism to such an extent that the legislative program of the New
Deal had been necessary to alleviate the monopolistic evils of the capi-
talistic system and if these measures failed, as they might well fail,
socialism would be the only remedy. Apparently competition and free
enterprise had somehow come to life again in the United States in left
wing opinion as in right wing opinion!
When the Economic Cooperation Administration came into existence
in 1948, it became official American policy to try to induce European
countries to dismantle cartels and to imitate as nearly as possible "the
free enterprise system" of the United States. The American industri-
alists who participated in the ECA enthusiastically supported this
policy. In a sense perhaps it was consistent for them to do so. British
industrialists might argue wryly that there was not a single cartel in all


---Economics-1954-0-08.txt---
Germany or in the United Kingdom as big as some individual corpora-
tions in the United States, but this could perhaps be overlooked as
irrelevant. It was, nevertheless, a little puzzling to observe the way in
which the economic measures of Roosevelt and Truman which had been
considered so destructively anticapitalistic by our industrialists were
overlooked, at least momentarily, while the United States was pointed
to as the peerless model of competition and laissez faire.
This fading away among our industrialists of their sense of catas-
trophe at what the New Deal had done to our economic system and their
renewed confidence in the vitality of the American free enterprise sys-
tem have no doubt been greatly accentuated by the Republican victory
over the Democratic administration in the 1952 election. What is of
greater significance to us is the way in which economists in the last six
or eight years seem to have shifted their own point of view in respect
to these matters. There has been a pronounced swing among economists
away from the position that monopoly and quasimonopoly in its various
forms and manifestations, and imperfections and impurities in compe-
tition, are perhaps as great or even of greater importance in the econ-
omy than is competition itself.
The reason for this shift has not been so much any change in what
economists consider to be the actual institutional character of our
system. I doubt whether the necessarily incomplete data which we have
on the degree of concentration in industry and on the extent to which
the degree of concentration has or has not changed through time or
the difficulties in interpreting these data have been determinative. Of
greater importance has been the dissatisfaction of economists with the
various models of imperfect competition, monopolistic competition,
oligopoly and so on. To the extent that these have been offered as repre-
senting both reality and universality economists were bound to doubt
whether they were as useful as the traditional competitive model.
What I have called a "swing" among economists may reflect no more
than the impact which we have all felt of the ideas expressed by Stigler,
Friedman, Slichter and others, who hold that our economy is still in the
main competitive and that an economic theory which has developed on
this assumption need not be substantially altered to fit reasonably
effectively the actually existing system.
It is not quite clear whether our system is supposed still to be char-
acteristically competitive because our antitrust and related legislation
and its administration has in fact been quite efficient in maintaining
competition or whether the position is that competition is bound to
maintain itself pretty much regardless of the law and its administration.
The various positions of economists on these interrelated questions
become more than a little difficult to sort out. Galbraith, for example,


---Economics-1954-0-09.txt---
would not argue that the existence of countervailing power proves that
our economy is still essentially competitive on the old model. He seems
only to argue that it works as well as the competitive system did.
Suppose, however, that "countervailing power" were a reality and
that it was just as effective or even more effective from the standpoint
of producing national product as was the competitive system. Suppose
that it also resulted in a distribution of income which was even superior
fronm a moral point of view to that of the competitive system. This
would prove very little about the degree to which the economic theory
applicable to a competitive economy was also applicable to an economy
of countervailing power. This observation applies to all those argu-
ments which claim that the economy is essentially competitive since
everything comes out about the same as under competition or even
better !
II
It will by now have become apparent, I hope, that the program this
year has been designed primarily to try to get at this question of where
we stand with respect to the nature of our economic system and whether
or not it differs in essence from what it was say seventy-five or fifty or
twenty-five years ago. It is, of course, not easy to define what is meant
by differing "in essence." As economists, I think the test would be
whether or not the economic theory which we would construct for
analytical purposes to deal with the system as it existed at any of these
earlier time periods would be adequate now.
The participants in this program have tried to develop and apply
this test to our problem. Since the many facets of the problem have had
to be developed in the separate sessions, I shall try, as best I can, to
integrate our cooperative effort and to indicate some of the complex
conceptual interrelationships. I cannot, of course, set forth the answers
which the participants have found. Indeed, most of the participants
may disagree profoundly with my own conclusions. I can, however,
indicate the kinds of questions which we have raised.
The first session for our program was set up to deal with the broader
aspects of the question of how competitive the economy really is. We
wanted to see clearly the positions taken on whether competition has
or has not been fundamentally impaired as a regulator of the economy,
as the protector of the consumer, and as the arbitrator of the divergent
interests of buyers and sellers of productive resources as well.
Stigler has shrewdly pointed out that the competitive model of price
determination is not intended to describe actual and individual pricing
processes, but is intended only to be analytical and predictive. Perhaps
a great deal of criticism of the classical model has arisen from our


---Economics-1954-0-10.txt---
failure to agree to this limitation on its purpose. What is supposed to
be the relation from a descriptive point of view, between the classical
competitive model and the actual pricing process as it manifests itself
so differently in myriads of individual transactions in many different
kinds of markets as well as in the absence of anything which could be
logically considered a "market"? To get some light on this question we
have tried to compare both our competitive and our imperfectly com-
petitive models with the actual process of pricing in American industry.
It has been contended that, however imperfectly competitive our
economy may be or however comprehensive governmental controls have
been, over a reasonable period of time substantially the same results are
produced as though the economy were in fact fully competitive. This
approximation of the results of competition may come about because
competitive forces begin to reassert themselves within the limits of the
new controls or barriers and/or because competitive forces manage to
evade the controls and circumvent the barriers. On the other hand, the
governmental controls and barriers are often instituted on the assump-
tion that competition has broken down and the controls and barriers are
intended to produce the same result which competition would have pro-
duced had it been effective.
Schultz has pointed out in this connection that the results of govern-
mental intervention in American agriculture have apparently not been
so strikingly different from what they would have been had the com-
petitive, laissez-faire model been operating. This question of whether
or not American agriculture is still essentially competitive and laissez
faire is obviously importantly determinative in assessing the essential
character of our system. We have tried to grapple with the broad
aspects of this problem under the title "Is the Economy More Com-
petitive in the Long Run than in the Short Run?"
Basically connected with the question of whether the process of price
determination in our economy is still essentially competitive, is that of
whether or not the structure and functioning of the distributional
system has been fundamentally altered. Have the changes which have
taken place in the organization of industry, of labor, of agriculture and
in the participation of government in the economy affected the size of
distributional shares in the economy or the size of factor compensation?
Is the economic theory which would be adequate for the analysis of
distribution on the assumption of "atomistic" competition adequate for
a much more complex kind of economy?
We have tried to get at these interrelated and complex questions
from a number of different angles. The most general form of the ques-
tion is: To what extent can economic power be exercised through organ-
ization to affect income distribution and factor compensation? What is


---Economics-1954-0-11.txt---
the relation between the factors affecting the size of functional shares
and factor compensation and the diminished inequality in personal
income distribution shown by the National Bureau study of Kuznets?
Are the answers which we put forward in connection with income dis-
tribution consistent with those which we find when we analyze the
process of wage determination in the current economy?
We have dealt also with the effects upon the structure and function-
ing of the American economy of the institutionalization of saving and
investment and the extraordinary intermingling of these processes with
those of the creation and management of the money supply. We raise
tihe question: To what extent does the quantity of capital available
depend upon individual decisions to consume or to refrain from con-
sumption as compared with the effect of decisions to invest by the man-
agements of corporations or of governments to run deficits, as self-
generating factors in increasing the money-capital supply?
Closely related is the problem in which it seemed at one time we were
to be completely swallowed up. Can the private economy be expected to
maintain the level of investment and consumption necessary to support
a tolerable level of employment if the government reduces substantially
its now gigantic expenditures for national defense or wipes out the
budgetary deficit?
This problem, whiclh involves the whole Keynesian type of analysis,
is tied in with our general subject from two directions. It has been
argued that the failure of our economy to maintain full employment is
due to the "stickiness" of prices and wages. Such "stickiness" could
hardly exist in a fully comnpetitive economy. The monetary aspects of our
economy are fundamental to its essential character. Whenever depres-
sion characterizes the economy we can be sure that measures which
will be proposed to cure the depression are not going to be of a purely
monetary character but are likely to affect profoundly the nature of our
economic system.
Finally, turning from the domestic scene, we raise the question of the
validity of orthodox international trade theory in a world character-
ized by current economic institutions. As Viner puts it in the last two
sentences in the introduction to his International Economics published
in 1951:
The world has changed greatly, and is now a world of planned economies,
of state trading, of substantially arbitrary and inflexible national price
structures, and of managed instability in exchange rates. The classical
theory is not directly relevant for such a world, and it may be that for
such a world there is and can be no relevant general theory.'

---Economics-1954-0-12.txt---
We can hope that with the slogan of "Trade Not Aid" we may be
passing out of this sort of world. I doubt that this transition will happen
soon enough or be thorough-going enough to destroy the usefulness of
our effort at this sort of analysis.
HII
After looking at this complex problem from so many diverse angles,
my own conclusion is that our economy has indeed undergone sub-
stantial organizational and functional changes. The development of an
economic theory adequate for an understanding of this current mixed
type of economy presents us with serious problems requiring the full
concentration of our energies.
Assuredly it does not follow that competition has disappeared. It is
perfectly clear that competition, if we stretch the term enough, covers
almost completely some aspects of our economy and affects in some
degree every part of it. If, however, we use the term capitalism to des-
ignate the kind of economic systm which characterized the United
States in the past we would at least need to use some qualifying adjec-
tive or adjectives to designate the current economic system in which the
role of competition has altered. But to find the right adjectives, to say
just when the change occurred, to draw the line between past and
present is extraordinarily difficult.
In part, this difficulty of establishing the chronology of change is due
to the natural tendency to define a competitive laissez-faire economy
in terms of abstract and ideal models. Frank Knight, and many others,
have pointed out-although not in this phraseology-that in a very
real sense "Competition is not what it used to be and never was." J. M.
Clark has stressed, for example, the illogicalness of supposing that the
actual institutional pricing system for manufactured goods ever was
at any time like the pricing of staple agricultural products from which
the competitive pricing model was so largely derived. It has been re-
peatedly remarked in this connection that "administered prices," for
example, are not a recent phenomenon.
Yet even after the difficulties of establishing chronology are conceded,
it seems to me that we can say that by the beginning of World War I our
economy had become sufficiently characterized by concentration in
industry, imperfect competition, oligopoly, administered industrial
prices, price leadership and other departures from or modifications of
the rule of the free, fully competitive market for us to consider the
change fundamental.
By the beginning of World War II there had taken place another
fundamental change involving a substantial departure from the princi-


---Economics-1954-0-13.txt---
ple of laissez faire. Labor unions and farm organizations had been
unhappy long before the New Deal at what they considered the imbal-
ance between their own economic power and that of industrial and
financial corporations. By the time the bottom of the depression had
been reached, labor unions and farm organizations had become deter-
mined to correct this economic imbalance of power by the use of politi-
cal power.
Through the Agricultural Adjustment Act, the Wagner Act and other
associated legislation of the New Deal, the powers of government were
used to effectuate the purposes of these organizations. This meant
direct intervention by government in the pricing and production proc-
esses of agriculture. It meant the strengthening of the bargaining
powers of labor unions by law and the frequent intervention by gov-
ernment on the side of labor unions in industrial disputes. Whether any
previously existing imbalance of power was not more than corrected
remains a matter of controversy.
The New Deal and the Fair Deal not only threw the power of the
state on the side of labor and farm organizations in a bargaining sense.
Beyond this, the government came to assume the responsibility when-
ever necessary, for the maintenance, through governmental spending and
lending, deficit financing and the redistribution of income through taxa-
tion, of a volume of purchasing power sufficiently large to underwrite
the higher wage rates and farm prices. In this way the policy of throw-
ing the powers of government on the side of particular economic groups
was married to the Keynesian monetary and credit policy.2 The poten-
tially inflationary bias in the economy inherent in the implementation
of this policy is obvious.
I have had to leave out for lack of time the development of the "wel-
fare capitalism" point of view among industrialists on the one hand
and the passage of social security legislation on the other, although
both of these have substantially reduced the rigors of our economic
system and might well be included in the list of substantial modifica-
tions of the economic system. Even more fundamental has been the
generally rcognized development of a managerial class whose interest
in the corporation and whose point of view is not exclusively that of
profit maximization for the stockholders. To the extent that this is true,
a substantial modification of the capitalistic system is reflected, since
of course in the traditional model the public interest is served through
the effort at profit maximization.

---Economics-1954-0-14.txt---
The coming to power of a Republican administration has indeed
slowed down and to some extent even reversed the trend towards state
intervention in the regulation of the economy, just as the enactment of
the Taft-Hartley Act somewhat reduced the economic and political
power of labor unions. Yet I do not believe that the changes in trend
which have occurred or are likely to occur would cause me to alter my
conclusion that we have in actual fact a very mixed kind of economy
rather than one characterized primarily by traditional competition and
laissez faire.
It is not easy to find a term which will be descriptive of this mixed
kind of economy. I think it might be called the "organizational econ-
omy"3 to indicate the vastly increased role of industrial and financial
corporations, labor unions and farm organizations and of the largest
and most powerful of all organizations, the state, in an economy in
which competition in old and new forms nevertheless still plays a stra-
tegic role.
As a result of the development of the organizational economy it
seems to me that industrialists, labor leaders and governmental officials
are bound to find themselves making decisions on matters which used
to be governed by the relatively impersonal operation of the free market
or which would have to be dealt with by a directing authority in a
centrally planned economy. We cannot any longer be sure that in this
current organizational economy these decisions will in their composite
effect produce equilibrium at full employment, the optimum allocation
of resources or the kind of pattern of distribution of income which
either a competitive model of an economy or a centrally planned and
administered economy would in theory produce.
A final illustration of this: An executive of one of the great pulp and
paper companies, when complimented on the good labor relations in his
industry, replied, with a sincere sense of pride: "Now-a-days the man-
agements of the corporations in our industry consider their basic job
to be marketing the labor embodied in our products. We try to sell this
labor embodied in pulp and paper at the best price we can get for it, in
the largest quantities practicable, without resorting to the kind of cut-
throat competition which would make it impossible for the stockholders
to get a fair return on the investment and, above all, for our labor to
earn a decent living. Some folks miglht indeed charge that the man-
agements of the companies in the industry act simply as selling agents
for our labor union."
He felt that this represented an immense public gain over the "bad
old times" when the managements of the various corporations in the

---Economics-1954-0-15.txt---
industry cut prices and wages whenever necessary in order to get busi-
ness away from the other fellow in the "reprehensible effort" of each
corporation to maximize its profits. Suppose this so-claimed laboristic
point of view spread to the managements of all large industries where
marketwide collective bargaining existed and where the elasticity of
demand for the product was such that a price increase could be passed
on without an unacceptable decline in sales?
Under the circumstances I have outlined, the industrialists and
labor leaders of such industries are making decisions which determine
to a significant degree what the shares in the national income of pulp
mill workers or steel workers and indeed of almost everyone else are
to be, at least until such time as the labor leaders and industrialists in
other industries or perhaps the leaders of farm organizations can
counter the move by means of similar action.
In the case of such industries we need not be surprised if the federal
government is confronted in the future as in the past with the necessity
for intervening in the setting of prices and wages. Indeed, if it has
seemed that the government has had to intervene in the past because
management and labor leaders have not been able to agree, it may well
be that government will have to intervene in the future because they
do agree. If government did have to take over this sort of responsi-
bility for the major sectors of our economy the effect upon the char-
acter of our economic system would be profound.
Fortunately, however, expressions like "The nation cannot exist half
slave and half free" seem not to apply to our economic system. I
repeat, that in this organizational economy of ours, competition in new
and old forms does still play an enormously important role even though
the changes from old-style competition and laissez faire have been
fundamental. This organizational economy continues to function in
spite of what seems each time to be irreconcilable conflicts between
great power aggregates of capital and labor and in spite of recurrent
general economic crises on a national and international scale.
The organizational economy functions as well as it does because
prices do not have to be exactly those which on some two-dimensional
demand and supply graph would exactly "clear the market." There is
not for each worker some precisely determinable marginal productivity
wage, any variation from which would throw the economy into dis-
equilibrium and chaos. Nor does the allocation of resources have to be
perfectly efficient or conform to that of some rigidly simplified model.
Furthermore, particularly in a productive and technologically progres-
sive economy like our own, the distribution of the benefits of some
quasimonopoly price advantage among management, shareholders and
laborers in an industry may be no more unjust nor more explosive as a


---Economics-1954-0-16.txt---
political-economic issue than the distribution of rents or of the income
from private property in general.
It is fortunate that such rigidity and the necessity for such perfec-
tion do not exist. Since they do not, the potentiality exists for the evo-
lutionary solution of the grave and complex question of whether and to
what degree we shall have to depend upon new and old forms of com-
petition, supported by antitrust legislation and enforcement, in com-
parison with the degree to which we must depend upon the develop-
ment of governmental agencies for dealing with price and wage policies
in industries in which competition can no longer be depended upon for
their regulation.
The very fact that the managements of business corporations and the
managements of labor unions have interests which are not identical with
those of their stockholders on the one hand or of the rank and file mem-
bership of the unions on the other, affords an alternative channel of
development. Both types of management may not be so adamant in the
pursuit of the short-run interests of their constituencies as in the past
and there is nowadays greater vulnerability to considerations of public
relations. Consequently the consumer interest might be accorded some
of the protection which it formerly received from competition.
It may well be that the system which I have called the "organiza-
tional economy" remains at least within gun-shot of what J. M. Clark
designated as "workable competition." Certainly either term is esthet-
ically superior to some such monstrosity as: "Competition, possessing
tremendous survival value, always present somewhere and present
almost everywhere in some degree, curn oligopoly or anyhow price
leadership, often incomplete and/or intermittent, together with col-
lective bargaining, in which economic power, always liable to become
political, conceivably may countervail just enough but just as likely
may countervail too little or too much, perhaps followed by govern-
mental intervention and/or control." Such a monstrosity might, how-
ever, be more descriptive of our actual economic system than calling
it by a shorter name.
Of far greater importance than what we call our economic system is
the fact that, whatever the logical difficulties in analyzing it and in
charcterizing it, this organizational economy has, up to now, served
us far better both in terms of goods produced and in terms of human
liberties preserved than has any other system, in any other country. In
any event, I hope and believe we will understand it better after we have
read the Proceedings of these meetings.


---Economics-1955-0-01.txt---
The central theme of this paper is the character and causes of long-
term changes in the personal distribution of income. Does inequality
in the distribution of income increase or decrease in the course of a
country's economic growth? What factors determine the secular level
and trends of income inequalities?
These are broad questions in a field of study that has been plagued
by looseness in definitions, unusual scarcity of data, and pressures of
strongly held opinions. While we cannot completely avoid the resulting
difficulties, it may help to specify the characteristics of the size-of-
income distributions that we want to examine and the movements of
which we want to explain.
Five specifications may be listed. First, the units for which incomes
are recorded and grouped should be family-expenditure units, properly
adjusted for the number of persons in each-rather than income re-
cipients for whom the relations between receipt and use of income can
be widely diverse. Second, the distribution should be complete, i.e.,
should cover all units in a country rather than a segment either at the
upper or lower tail. Third, if possible we should segregate the units
whose main income earners are either still in the learning or already in
the retired stages of their life cycle-to avoid complicating the picture
by including incomes not associated with full-time, full-fledged participa-
tion in economic activity. Fourth, income should be defined as it is now
for national income in this country, i.e., received by individuals, in-
cluding income in kind, before and after direct taxes, excluding capital
gains. Fifth, the units should be grouped by secular levels of income,
free of cyclical and other transient disturbances.
For such a distribution of mature expenditure units by secular levels


---Economics-1955-0-04.txt---
of income per capita, we should measure shares of some fixed ordinal
groups-percentiles, deciles, quintiles, etc. In the underlying array the
units should be classified by average income levels for a sufficiently long
span so that they form income-status groups-say a generation or
about 25 years. Within such a period, even when classified by secular
income levels, units may shift from one ordinal group to another. It
would, therefore, be necessary and useful to study separately the rela-
tive share of units that, throughout the generation period of reference,
were continuously within a specific ordinal group, and the share of the
units that moved into that specific group; and this should be done for
the shares of "residents" and "migrants" within all ordinal groups.
Without such a long period of reference and the resulting separation
between "resident" and "migrant" units at different relative income
levels, the very distinction between "low" and "high" income classes
loses its meaning, particularly in a study of long-term changes in shares
and in inequalities in the distribution. To say, for example, that the
"lower" income classes gained or lost during the last twenty years in
that their share of total income increased or decreased has meaning only
if the units have been classified as members of the "lower" classes
throughout those 20 years-and for those who have moved into or out
of those classes recently such a statement has no significance.
Furthermore, if one may add a final touch to what is beginning to
look like a statistical economist's pipe dream, we should be able to trace
secular income levels not only through a single generation but at least
through two-connecting the incomes of a given generation with those
of its immediate descendants. We could then distinguish units that,
throughout a given generation, remain within one ordinal group and
whose children-through their generation-are also within that group,
from units that remain within a group through their generation but
whose children move up or down on the relative economic scale in their
time. The number of possible combinations and permutations becomes
large; but it should not obscure the main design of the income structure
called for-the classification by long-term income status of a given
generation and of its immediate descendants. If living members of
society-as producers, consumers, savers, decision-makers on secular
problems-react to long-term changes in income levels and shares, data
on such an income structure are essential. An economic society can then
be judged by the secular level of the income share that it provides for
a given generation and for its children. The important corollary is that
the study of long-term changes in the income distribution must distin-
guish between changes in the shares of resident groups-resident within
either one or two generations-and changes in the income shares of


---Economics-1955-0-05.txt---
groups that, judged by their secular levels, migrate upward or down-
ward on the income scale.
Even if we had data to approximate the income structure just out-
lined, the broad question posed at the start-how income inequality
changes in the process of a country's economic growth-could be
answered only for growth under defined economic and social conditions.
And, in fact, we shall deal with this question in terms of the experience
of the now developed countries which grew under the aegis of the busi-
ness enterprise. But even with this limitation, there are no statistics
that can be used directly for the purpose of measuring the secular
income structure. Indeed, I have difficulty in visualizing how such
information could practicably be collected-a difficulty that may be
due to lack of familiarity with the studies of our colleagues in de-
mography and sociology who have concerned themselves with prob-
lems of generation or intergeneration mobility and status. But although
we now lack data directly relevant to the secular income structure,
the setting up of reasonably clear and yet difficult specifications is
not merely an exercise in perfectionism. For if these specifications do
approximate, and I trust that they do, the real core of our interest when
we talk about shares of economic classes or long-term changes in these
shares, then proper disclosure of our meaning and intentions is vitally
useful. It forces us to examine and evaluate critically the data that are
available; it prevents us from jumping to conclusions based on these
inadequate data; it reduces the loss and waste of time involved in
mechanical manipulations of the type represented by Pareto-curve-
fitting to groups of data whose meaning, in terms of income concept,
unit of observation, and proportion of the total universe covered, re-
mains distressingly vague; and most important of all, it propels us
toward a deliberate construction of testable bridges between the avail-
able data and the income structure that is the real focus of our interest.
I. Trends in Income Inequality
Forewarned of the difficulties, we turn now to the available data.
These data, even when relating to complete populations, invariably
classify units by income for a given year. From our standpoint, this is
their major limitation. Because the data often do not permit many
size-groupings, and because the difference between annual income
incidence and longer-term income status has less effect if the number of
classes is small and the limits of each class are wide, we use a few wide
classes. This does not resolve the difficulty; and there are others due to
the scantiness of data for long periods, inadequacy of the unit used-
which is, at best, a family and very often a reporting unit-errors in the


---Economics-1955-0-06.txt---
data, and so on through a long list. Consequently, the trends in the
income structure can be discerned but dimly, and the results considered
as preliminary informed guesses.
The data are for the United States, England, and Germany-a scant
sample, but at least a starting point for some inferences concerning
long-term changes in the presently developed countries. The general
conclusion suggested is that the relative distribution of income, as
measured by annual income incidence in rather broad classes, has been
moving toward equality-with these trends particularly noticeable
since the 1920's but beginning perhaps in the period before the first
world war.
Let me cite some figures, all for income before direct taxes, in sup-
port of this impression. In the United States, in the distribution of in-
come among families (excluding single individuals), the shares of the
two lowest quintiles rise from 13? per cent in 1929 to 18 per cent in the
years after the second world war (average of 1944, 1946, 1947, and
1950); whereas the share of the top quintile declines from 55 to 44 per
cent, and that of the top 5 per cent from 31 to 20 per cent. In the
United Kingdom, the share of the top 5 per cent of units declines from
46 per cent in 1880 to 43 per cent in 1910 or 1913, to 33 per cent in
1929, to 31 per cent in 1938, and to 24 per cent in 1947; the share of
the lower 85 per cent remains fairly constant between 1880 and 1913,
between 41 and 43 per cent, but then rises to 46 per cent in 1929 and
55 per cent in 1947. In Prussia income inequality increases slightly
between 1875 and 1913-the shares of the top quintile rising from 48
to 50 per cent, of the top 5 per cent from 26 to 30 per cent; the share
of the lower 60 per cent, however, remains about the same. In Saxony,
the change between 1880 and 1913 is minor: the share of the two
lowest quintiles declines from 15 to 14Y2 per cent; that of the third
quintile rises from 12 to 13 per cent, of-the fourth quintile from 16?2
to about 18 per cent; that of the top quintile declines from 56>2 to
54j/2 per cent, and of the top 5 per cent from 34 to 33 per cent. In
Germany as a whole, relative income inequality drops fairly sharply
from 1913 to the 1920's, apparently due to decimation of large for-
tunes and property incomes during the war and inflation; but then
begins to return to prewar levels during the depression of the 1930's.'

---Economics-1955-0-07.txt---
Even for what they are assumed to represent, let alone as approxima-
tions to shares in distributions by secular income levels, the data are
such that differences of two or three percentage points cannot be as-
signed significance. One must judge by the general weight and consen-
sus of the evidence-which unfortunately is limited to a few countries.
It justifies a tentative impression of constancy in the relative distribu-
tion of income before taxes, followed by some narrowing of relative
income inequality after the first world war-or earlier.
Three aspects of this finding should be stressed. First, the data are
for income before direct taxes and exclude contributions by govern-
ment (e.g., relief and free assistance). It is fair to argue that both the
proportion and progressivity of direct taxes and the proportion of total
income of individuals accounted for by government assistance to the
less privileged economic groups have grown during recent decades. This
is certainly true of the United States and the United Kingdom, but in
the case of Germany is subject to further examination. It follows that
the distribution of income after direct taxes and including free contribu-
tions by government would show an even greater narrowing of in-
equality in developed countries with size distributions of pretax, ex-
government-benefits income similar to those for the United States and
the United Kingdom.
Second, such stability or reduction in the inequality of the percentage
shares was accompanied by significant rises in real income per capita.
The countries now classified as developed have enjoyed rising per
capita incomes except during catastrophic periods such as years of
active world conflict. Hence, if the shares of groups classified by their
annual income position can be viewed as approximations to shares of
groups classified by their secular income levels, a constant percentage
share of a given group means that its per capita real income is rising
at the same rate as the average for all units in the country; and a re-
duction in inequality of the shares means that the per capita income
of the lower-income groups is rising at a more rapid rate than the per
capita income of the upper-income groups.
The third point can be put in the form of a question. Do the distribu-


---Economics-1955-0-08.txt---
tions by annual incomes properly reflect trends in distribution by
secular incomes? As technology and economic performance rise to
higher levels, incomes are less subject to transient disturbances, not
necessarily of the cyclical order that can be recognized and allowed
for by reference to business cycle chronology, but of a more irregular
type. If in the earlier years the economic fortunes of units were sub-
ject to greater vicissitudes-poor crops for some farmers, natural
calamity losses for some nonfarm business units-if the over-all propor-
tion of individual entrepreneurs whose incomes were subject to such
calamities, more yesterday but some even today, was larger in earlier
decades, these earlier distributions of income would be more affected
by transient disturbances. In these earlier distributions the temporarily
unfortunate might crowd the lower quintiles and depress their shares
unduly, and the temporarily fortunate might dominate the top quintile
and raise its share unduly-proportionately more than in the distribu-
tions for later years. If so, distributions by longer-term average in-
comes might show less reduction in inequality than do the distributions
by annual incomes; they might even show an opposite trend.
One may doubt whether this qualification would upset a narrowing
of inequality as marked as that for the United States, and in as short
a period as twenty-five years. Nor is it likely to affect the persistent
downward drift in the spread of the distributions in the United King-
dom. But I must admit a strong element of judgment in deciding how
far this qualification modifies the finding of long-term stability followed
by reduction in income inequality in the few developed countries for
which it is observed or is likely to be revealed by existing data. The
important point is that the qualification is relevant; it suggests need for
further study if we are to learn much from the available data con-
cerning the secular income structure; and such study is likely to yield
results of interest in themselves in their bearing upon the problem
of trends in temporal instability of income flows to individual units
or to economically significant groups of units in different sectors of
the national economy.
II. An Attempt at Explanation
If the above summary of trends in the secular income structure of
developed countries comes perilously close to pure guesswork, an
attempt to explain these dimly discernible trends may surely seem
foolhardy. Yet it is necessary to do so if only to bring to the surface
some factors that may have been at play; induce a search for data
bearing upon these factors; and thus confirm or revise our impressions
of the trends themselves. Such preliminary speculations are useful


---Economics-1955-0-09.txt---
provided it is recognized that we are at a relatively early stage in a
long process of interplay among tentative summaries of evidence,
preliminary hypotheses, and search for additional evidence that might
lead to reformulation and revisions-as bases for new analysis and
further search.
The present instalment of initial speculation may be introduced by
saying that a long-term constancy, let alone reduction, of inequality in
the secular income structure is a puzzle. For there are at least two
groups of forces in the long-term operation of developed countries that
make for increasing inequality in the distribution of income before
taxes and excluding contributions by governments. The first group
relates to the concentration of savings in the upper-income brackets.
According to all recent studies of the apportionment of income between
consumption and savings, only the upper-income groups save; the
total savings of groups below the top decile are fairly close to zero. For
example, the top 5 per cent of units in the United States appear to
account for almost two-thirds of individuals' savings; and the top
decile comes close to accounting for all of it. What is particularly im-
portant is that the inequality in distribution of savings is greater than
that in the distribution of property incomes, and hence of assets.2
Granted that this finding is based on distribution of annual income,
and that a distribution by secular levels would show less inequality in
income and correspondingly less concentration of savings, the in-
equality in savings would still remain fairly sharp, perhaps more so
than in holdings of assets. Other conditions being equal, the cumulative
effect of such inequality in savings would be the concentration of an
increasing proportion of income-yielding assets in the hands of the
upper groups-a basis for larger income slhares of these groups and
their descendants.
The second source of the puzzle lies in the industrial structure of
the income distribution. An invariable accompaniment of growth in
developed countries is the shift away from agriculture, a process usu-
ally referred to as industrialization and urbanization. The income dis-
tribution of the total population, in the simplest model, may therefore
be viewed as a combination of the income distributions of the rural
and of the urban populations. What little we know of the structures
of these two component income distributions reveals that: (a) the
average per capita income of the rural population is usually lower than
that of the urban;' (b) inequality in the percentage shares within the

---Economics-1955-0-10.txt---
distribution for the rural population is somewhat narrower than in
that for the urban population-even when based on annual income; and
this difference would probably be wider for distributions by secular
income levels.4 Operating with this simple model, what conclusions do
we reach? First, all other conditions being equal, the increasing weight
of urban population means an increasing share for the more unequal of
the two component distributions. Second, the relative difference in per
capita income between the rural and urban populations does not
necessarily drift downward in the process of economic growth: indeed,
there is some evidence to suggest that it is stable at best, and tends to
widen because per capita productivity in urban pursuits increases more
rapidly than in agriculture. If this is so, inequality in the total in-
come distribution should increase.
Two questions then arise: First, why does the share of the top-
income groups show no rise over time if the concentration of savings
has a cumulative effect? Second, why does income inequality decline
and particularly why does the share of the lower-income groups rise if
both the weight of the more unequal urban income distribution and the
relative difference between per capita urban and per capita rural in-
comes increase?
The first question has been discussed elsewhere, although the re-
sults are still preliminary hypotheses,5 and it would be impossible to
do more here than summarize them briefly.
Factors Counteracting the Concentration of Saving
One group of factors counteracting the cumulative effect of con-

---Economics-1955-0-11.txt---
centration of savings upon upper-income shares is legislative interfer-
ence and "political" decisions. These may be aimed at limiting the
cumulation of property directly through inheritance taxes and other
explicit capital levies. They may produce similar effects indirectly,
e.g., by government-permitted or -induced inflation which reduces the
economic value of accumulated wealth stored in fixed-price securities
or other properties not fully responsive to price changes; or by legal
restriction of the yield on accumulated property, as happened recently
in the form of rent controls or of artificially low long-term interest rates
maintained by the government to protect the market for its own bonds.
To discuss this complex of processes is beyond the competence of
this paper, but its existence and possible wide effect should be noted
and one point emphasized. All these interventions, even when not
directly aimed at limiting the effects of accumulation of past savings
in the hands of the few, do reflect the view of society on the long-term
utility of wide income inequalities. This view is a vital force that would
operate in democratic societies even if there were no other counteract-
ing factors. This should be borne in mind in connection with changes in
this view even in developed countries, which result from the process of
growth and constitute a re-evaluation of the need for income in-
equalities as a source of savings for economic growth. The result of
such changes would be an increasing pressure of legal and political
decisions on upper-income shares-increasing as a country moves to
higher economic levels.
We turn to three other, less obvious groups of factors countervailing
the cumulative effects of concentration of savings. The first is demo-
graphic. In the presently developed countries there have been dif-
ferential rates of increase between the rich and the poor-family con-
trol having first spread to the former. Hence, even disregarding mi-
gration, one can argue that the top 5 per cent of 1870 and its descend-
ants would account for a significantly smaller percentage of the popu-
lation in 1920. This is even more likely in a country like the United
States with its substantial immigration-usually entering the income
distribution at the lower-income levels; and may be less likely in a
country from which the poor have emigrated. The top 5 per cent of
population in 1920 is, therefore, comprised only partly of the de-
scendants of the top 5. per cent of 1870; perhaps half or a larger
fraction must have originated in the lower-income brackets of 1870.
This means that the period during which effects of concentration of
savings can be assumed to have cumulated to raise the income share
of any given fixed ordinal group (whether it be the top 1, 5, or 10 per
cent of the population) is much shorter than the fifty years in the
span; and hence these effects are much weaker than they would have


---Economics-1955-0-12.txt---
been if the top 5 per cent of 1870 had, through their descendants, filled
completely the ranks of the top 5 per cent of the population of 1920.
Although the cumulative effect of savings may be to raise the relative
income of a progressively diminishing top proportion of total popula-
tion, their effect on the relative share of a fixed top proportion of the
population is much reduced.
The second group of forces resides in the very nature of a dynamic
economy with relative freedom of individual opportunity. In such a
society technological change is rampant and property assets that
originated in older industries almost inevitably have a diminishing
proportional weight in the total because of the more rapid growth of
younger industries. Unless the descendants of a high-income group
manage to shift their accumulating assets into new fields and partici-
pate with new entrepreneurs in the growing share of the new and more
profitable industries, the long-range returns on their property holdings
are likely to be significantly lower than those of the more recent
entrants into the class of substantial asset holders. "From shirt-sleeves
to shirt-sleeves in three generations" probably exaggerates the effects
of this dynamism of a growing economy: there are, among the upper-
income groups of today, many descendants of the upper-income groups
of more than three or even four generations ago. But the adage is
realistic in the sense that a long unbroken sequence of connection with
rising industries and hence with major sources of continued large
property incomes is exceedingly rare; that the successful great entre-
preneurs of today are rarely sons of the great and successful entrepre-
neurs of yesterday.
The third group of factors is suggested by the importance, even in
the upper-income brackets, of service income. At any given time, only
a limited part of the income differential of a top group is accounted for
by the concentration of property yields: much of it comes from the
high level of service income (professional and entrepreneurial earnings
and the like). The secular rise in the upper incomes due to this source is
likely to be less marked than in the service incomes of lower brackets,
and for two somewhat different reasons. First, in so far as high levels
of service incomes of given upper units are due to individual excellence
(as is true of many professional and entrepreneurial pursuits), there
is much less incentive for and possibility of keeping such incomes at
continued high relative levels. Hence, the service incomes of the de-
scendants of an initially high level unit are not likely to show as strong
an upward trend as the incomes for the large body of population at
lower-income levels. Second, a substantial part of the rising trend in
per capita income is due to interindustry shift, i.e., a shift of workers
from lower-income to higher-income industries. The possibilities of rise


---Economics-1955-0-13.txt---
due to such interindustry shifts in the service incomes of the initially
high-income groups are much more limited than for the population as a
whole: they are already in high-income occupations and industries and
the range for them toward higher paid occupations is more narrowly
circumscribed.
These three groups of factors, even disregarding such legislative and
political intervention as is indicated above, are all characteristics of a
dynamic growing economy. The differentials in rate of natural increase
between the upper- and the lower-income groups are true only of a
rapidly growing population-with or without immigration-but ac-
companied by declining death rates and declining birth rates, a demo-
graphic pattern associated in the past only with the growing Western
economies. The impact of new industries on obsolescence of already
established wealth as a source of property income is clearly a function
of rapid growth, and the more rapid the growth the greater the impact
will be. The effect of interindustry shifts on the rise of per capita
income, particularly of lower-income groups, is also a function of
growth since only in a growing economy is there much shift in the
relative importance of the several industrial sectors. One can then say,
in general, that the basic factor militating against the rise in upper-
income shares that would be produced by the cumulative effects of
concentration of savings, is the dynamism of a growing and free
economic society.
Yet while the discussion answers the original question, it yields
no determinate answer as to whether the trend in income shares of
upper groups is upward, downward, or constant. Even for the specific
question discussed, a determinate answer depends upon the relative
balance of factors-continuous concentration of savings making for
an increasing share, and the offsetting forces tending to cancel this
effect. To tell what the trend of upper-income shares is likely to be, we
need to know much more about the weights of these conflicting pres-
sures. Moreover, the discussion has brought to the surface factors that,
in and of themselves, may cause either an upward or a downward trend
in the share of upper-income groups and hence in income inequality-
in distributions of annual or of secular income. For example, the new
entrants into the upper groups-the upward "migrants"-who rise
either because of exceptional ability or attachment to new industries or
for a variety of other reasons-may be entering the fixed upper group
of say the top 5 per cent with an income differential-either annual or
long-term-that may be relatively greater than that of entrants in the
preceding generation. Nothing in the argument so far excludes this
possibility-which would mean a rise in the share of upper-income
groups, even if the share of the old "resident" part remains constant or


---Economics-1955-0-14.txt---
even declines. Even disregarding other factors that will be noted in the
next section, no firm conclusion as to trends of upper-income shares
can be derived from the bare model discussed. Search for further data
might yield evidence that would permit a reasonably rough but deter-
minate conclusion; but I have no such evidence at hand.
The Shift from Agricultural to Nonagricultural Sectors
What about the trend toward greater inequality due to the shift
from the agricultural to the nonagricultural sectors? In view of the im-
portance of industrialization and urbanization in the process of eco-
nomic growth, their implications for trends in the income distribution
should be explored-even though we have neither the necessary data
nor a reasonably complete theoretical model.
The implications can be brought out most clearly with the help of a
numerical illustration (see Table I). In this illustration we deal with
two sectors: agriculture (A) and all others (B). For each sector we
assume percentage distributions of total sector income among sector
deciles: one distribution (E) is of moderate inequality, with the shares
starting at 5.5 per cent for the lowest decile and rising 1 percentage
point from decile to decile to reach 14.5 per cent for the top decile; the
other distribution (U) is much more unequal, the shares starting at 1
per cent for the lowest decile, and rising 2 percentage points from decile
to decile to reach 19 per cent for the top decile. We assign per capita
incomes to each sector: 50 units to A and 100 units to B in case I (lines
1-10 in the illustration); 50 to A and 200 to B in case II (lines 11-20).
Finally, we allow the proportion of the numbers in sector A in the total
number to decline from 0.8 to 0.2.
The numerical illustration is only a partial summary of the calcula-
tions, showing the shares of the lowest and highest quintiles in the in-
come distribution for the total population under different assumptions.6
The basic assumptions used throughout are that the per capita income
of sector B (nonagricultural) is always higher than that of sector A;
that the proportion of sector A in the total number declines; and that
the inequality of the income distribution within sector A may be as
wide as that within sector B but not wider. With the assumptions con-

---Economics-1955-0-15.txt---
cerning three sets of factors-intersector differences in per capita in-
come, intrasector distributions, and sector weights-varying within the
limitations just indicated, the following conclusions are suggested:


---Economics-1955-0-16.txt---
First, if the per capita income differential increases, or if the income
distribution is more unequal for sector B than for sector A, or if both
conditions are present, the rise over time in the relative weight of sector
B causes a marked increase in inequality in the countrywide income
distribution. We have here a demonstration of the effects upon trends
in income inequality of interindustry shifts away from agriculture dis-
cussed above (pp. 7-8).
Second, if the intrasector income distribution is the same for both
sectors, and the widening inequality in the countrywide income distribu-
tion is due only to the increasing per capita income differential in favor
of sector B, such widening is greater when the intrasector income dis-
tributions are characterized by moderate rather than wide inequality.
Thus, if the intrasector distributions are of the E type, the range in the
countrywide distribution widens from 23.7 to 26.3 as proportion of A
drops from 0.8 to 0.2 and as the ratio of per capita income of sector B
to that of sector A changes from 2 to 4 (see line 4, col. 1, and line 14,
col. 7). If the U distributions are used, the range, under identical con-
ditions, widens only from 36.8 to 37.9 (see line 7, col. 1, and line 17,
col. 7). This difference is revealed more clearly by the change in the
share of the 1st quintile, which bears the brunt of widening inequality:
for the E distribution, the share drops from 10.5 (line 2, col. 1) to 5.9
(line 12, col. 7); for the U distribution, from 3.8 (line 5, col. 1) to 3.1
(line 15, col. 7).
Third, if the per capita income differential between sectors is con-
stant, but the intrasector distribution of B is more unequal than that of
A, the widening inequality in the countrywide distribution is the
greater, the lower the assumed per capita income differential. Thus for
a differential of 2 to 1, the range widens from 28.3 when the proportion
of A is 0.8 (line 10, col. 1) to 36.0 at the peak when the proportion of
A is 0.5 (line 10, col. 4) and is still 33.8 when the proportion of A drops
to 0.2 (line 10, col. 7). For a per capita income differential of 4 to 1, the
widening of the range at the maximum is only from 44.2 (line 20, col.
1) to 49.8 (line 20, col. 2) and then the range declines to 37.2 (line 20,
col. 7), well below the initial level.
Fourth, the assumptions utilized in the numerical illustration-of a
rise in proportions of total number in section B, of greater inequality
in the distribution within sector B, and of the growing excess of per
capita income in B over that in A-yield a decline in the share of the 1st
quintile that is much more conspicuous than the rise in the share of the
5th quintile. Thus the share of the 1st quintile, with the proportion of A
at 0.8, distribution in B more unequal than in A, and a per capita in-
come differential of 2 to 1, is 9.3 (line 8, col. 1). As we shift to a pro-
portion of A of 0.2, and a per capita income differential of 4 to 1, the


---Economics-1955-0-17.txt---
share of the 1st quintile drops to 3.8 (line 18, col. 7). Under the same
conditions, the share of the 5th quintile changes from 37.7 (line 9, col.
1) to 40.9 (line 19, col. 7).
Fifth, even if the differential in per capita income between the two
sectors remains constant and the intrasector distributions are identical
for the two sectors, the mere shift in the proportions of numbers pro-
duces slight but significant changes in the distribution for the country
as a whole. In general, as the proportion of A drifts from 0.8 down-
wards, the range tends first to widen and then to diminish. When the per
capita income differential is low (2 to 1), the widening of the range
reaches a peak close to middle of the series, i.e., at a proportion of A
equal to 0.6 (lines 4 and 7); and the movements in the range tend to be
rather limited. WVhen the per capita income differential is large (4 to 1),
the range contracts as soon as the proportion of A passes the level of
0.7, and the decline in the range is quite substantial (lines 14 and 17).
Sixth, of particular bearing upon the shares of upper-income groups
is the finding that the share of the top quintile declines as the propor-
tion of A falls below a certain, rather high fraction of total numbers.
There is not a single case in the illustration in which the share of the
5th quintile fails to decline, either throughout or through a substantial
segment of the sequence in the downward movement of the proportion
of A from 0.8 to 0.2. In lines 6 and 9, the share of the 5th quintile de-
clines beyond the point at which the proportion of A is 0.6; and in all
other relevant lines the downward trend in the share of the 5th quintile
sets in earlier. The reason lies, of course, in the fact that with increasing
industrialization, the growing weight of the nonagricultural sector,
with its higher per capita income, raises the per capita income for the
whole economy; and yet per capita income within each sector and the
intrasector distributions are kept constant. Under such conditions, the
upper shares would fail to decline only if there were either a greater
rise in per capita income of sector B than in that of sector A; or increas-
ing inequality in the intrasector distribution of sector B.
Several other conjectural conclusions could be drawn with additional
variations in assumptions, and multiplication of sectors beyond the
two distinguished in the numerical illustration. But even in the simple
model illustrated the variety of possible patterns is impressive; and
one is forced to the view that much more empirical information is
needed to permit a proper choice of specific assumptions and constants.
Granted that several of the conclusions could be generalized in formal
mathematical terms, useful inferences would be within our reach only if
we knew more about the specific sector distributions and the levels and
trends in per capita income differentials among the sectors.
If then we limit ourselves to what is known or can be plausibly as-


---Economics-1955-0-18.txt---
sumed, the following inferences can be suggested. We know that per
capita income is greater in sector B than in sector A; that, at best, the
per capita income differential between sectors A and B has been fairly
constant (e.g., in the United States) and has perhaps more often in-
creased; that the proportion of sector A in total numbers has dimin-
ished. Then, if we start with intrasector distribution of B more unequal
than for A, we would expect results suggested by either lines 8-10 or
18-20. In the former case, the range widens as the proportion of A drops
from 0.8 to 0.5, and then narrows. In the latter case, the range declines
beyond the point at which the proportion of A is 0.7. But in both cases,
the share of the 1st quintile declines, and fairly appreciably and con-
tinuously (see lines 8 and 18). The magnitude and continuity of the
decline are partly the result of the specific assumptions made; but one
would be justified in arguing that within the broad limits suggested by
the illustration, the assumption of greater inequality in the intrasector
distribution for sector B than for sector A, yields a downward trend
in the share of the lower-income groups. Yet we find no such trend in
the empirical evidence that we have. Can we assume that in the earlier
periods the internal distribution for sector B was not more unequal than
for sector A, despite the more recent indications that urban income dis-
tribution is more unequal than the rural?
There is, obviously, room for conjecture. It seems most plausible
to assume that in earlier periods of industrialization, even when the
nonagricultural population was still relatively small in the total, its in-
come distribution was more unequal than that of the agricultural popu-
lation. This would be particularly so during the periods when industri-
alization and urbanization were proceeding apace and the urban popula-
tion was being swelled, and fairly rapidly, by immigrants-either from
the country's agricultural areas or from abroad. Under these condi-
tions, the urban population would run the full gamut from low-income
positions of recent entrants to the economic peaks of the established
top-income groups. The urban income inequalities might be assumed to
be far wider than those for the agricultural population which was or-
ganized in relatively small individual enterprises (large-scale units were
rarer then than now).
If we grant the assumption of wider inequality of distribution in sec-
tor B, the shares of the lower-income brackets should have shown a
downward trend. Yet the earlier summary of empirical evidence indi-
cates that during the last 50 to 75 years there has been no widening in
income inequality in the developed countries but, on the contrary, some
narrowing within the last two to four decades. It follows that the intra-
sector distribution-either for sector A or for sector B-must have
shown sufficient narrowing of inequality to offset the increase called


---Economics-1955-0-19.txt---
for by the factors discussed. Specifically, the shares of the lower income
groups in sectors A and/or B must have increased sufficiently to offset
the decline that would otherwise have been produced by a combination
of the elements shown in the numerical illustration.
This narrowing in inequality, the offsetting rise in the shares of the
lower brackets, most likely occurred in the income distribution for the
urban groups, in sector B. While it may also have been present in sector
A, it would have had a more limited effect on the inequality in the coun-
trywide income distribution because of the rapidly diminishing weight
of sector A in the total. Nor was such a narrowing of income inequality
in agriculture likely: with industrialization, a higher level of technology
permitted larger-scale units and, in the United States for example,
sharpened the contrast between the large and successful business
farmers and the subsistence sharecroppers of the South. Furthermore,
since we accept the assumption of initially narrower inequality in the
internal distribution of income in sector A than in sector B, any signifi-
cant reduction in inequality in the former is less likely than in the latter.
Hence we may conclude that the major offset to the widening of in-
come inequality associated with the shift from agriculture and the
countryside to industry and the city must have been a rise in the income
share of the lower groups within the nonagricultural sector of the
population. This provides a lead for exploration in what seems to me
a most promising direction: consideration of the pace and character of
the economic growth of the urban population, with particular reference
to the relative position of lower-income groups. Much is to be said for
the notion that once the early turbulent phases of industrialization and
urbanization had passed, a variety of forces converged to bolster the
economic position of the lower-income groups within the urban popula-
tion. The very fact that after a while, an increasing proportion of the
urban population was "native," i.e., born in cities rather than in the
rural areas, and hence more able to take advantage of the possibilities
of city life in preparation for the economic struggle, meant a better
chance for organization and adaptation, a better basis for securing
greater income shares than was possible for the newly "immigrant"
population coming from the countryside or from abroad. The increas-
ing efficiency of the older, established urban population should also be
taken into account. Furthermore, in democratic societies the growing
political power of the urban lower-income groups led to a variety of
protective and supporting legislation, much of it aimed to counteract
the worst effects of rapid industrialization and urbanization and to
support the claims of the broad masses for more adequate shares of the
growing income of the country. Space does not permit the discussion of
demographic, political, and social considerations that could be brought


---Economics-1955-0-20.txt---
to bear to explain the offsets to any declines in the shares of the lower
groups, declines otherwise deducible from the trends suggested in the
numerical illustration.
III. Other Trends Related to Those in Income Inequality
One aspect of the conjectural conclusion just reached deserves em-
phasis because of its possible interrelation with other important ele-
ments in the process and theory of economic growth. The scanty em-
pirical evidence suggests that the narrowing of income inequality in
the developed countries is relatively recent and probably did not char-
acterize the earlier stages of their growth. Likewise, the various factors
that have been suggested above would explain stability and narrowing
in income inequality in the later rather than in the earlier phases of
industrialization and urbanization. Indeed, they would suggest widen-
ing inequality in these early phases of economic growth, especially in the
older countries where the emergence of the new industrial system had
shattering effects on long-established pre-industrial economic and social
institutions. This timing characteristic is particularly applicable to fac-
tors bearing upon the lower-income groups: the dislocating effects of
the agricultural and industrial revolutions, combined with the "swarm-
ing" of population incident upon a rapid decline in death rates and the
maintenance or even rise of birth rates, would be unfavorable to the
relative economic position of lower-income groups. Furthermore,
there may also have been a preponderance in the earlier periods of fac-
tors favoring maintenance or increase in the shares of top-income
groups: in so far as their position was bolstered by gains arising out of
new industries, by an unusually rapid rate of creation of new fortunes,
we would expect these forces to be relatively stronger in the early
phases of industrialization than in the later when the pace of industrial
growth slackens.
One might thus assume a long swing in the inequality characterizing
the secular income structure: widening in the early phases of economic
growth when the transition from the pre-industrial to the industrial
civilization was most rapid; becoming stabilized for a while; and then
narrowing in the later phases. This long secular swing would be most
pronounced for older countries where the dislocation effects of the
earlier phases of modern economic growth were most conspicuous; but
it might be found also in the "younger" countries like the United States,
if the period preceding marked industrialization could be compared with
the early phases of industrialization, and if the latter could be com-
pared with the subsequent phases of greater maturity.
If there is some evidence for assuming this long swing in relative
inequality in the distribution of income before direct taxes and exclud-


---Economics-1955-0-21.txt---
ing free benefits from government, there is surely a stronger case for
assuming a long swing in inequality of income net of direct taxes and
including government benefits. Progressivity of income taxes and, in-
deed, their very importance characterize only the more recent phases of
development of the presently developed countries; in narrowing in-
come inequality they must have accentuated the downward phase of
the long swing, contributing to the reversal of trend in the secular
widening and narrowing of income inequality.
No adequate empirical evidence is available for checking this con-
jecture of a long secular swing in income inequality;-7 nor can the phases
be dated precisely. However, to make it more specific, I would place the
early phase in which income inequality might have been widening, from
about 1780 to 1850 in England; from about 1840 to 1890, and particu-
larly from 1870 on in the United States; and, from the 1840's to the
1890's in Germany. I would put the phase of narrowing income in-
equality somewhat later in the United States and Germany than in
England-perhaps beginning with the first world war in the former and
in the last quarter of the 19th century in the latter.
Is there a possible relation between this secular swing in income
inequality and the long swing in other important components of the
growth process? For the older countries a long swing is observed in the
rate of growth of population-the upward phase represented by accel-
eration in the rate of growth reflecting the early reduction in the death
rate which was not offset by a decline in the birth rate (and in some
cases was accompanied by a rise in the birth rate); and the downward
phase represented by a shrinking in the rate of growth reflecting the
more pronounced downward trend in the birth rate. Again, in the older
countries, and also perhaps in the younger, there may have been a
secular swing in the rate of urbanization, in the sense that the propor-
tional additions to urban population and the measures of internal mi-
gration that produced this shift of population probably increased for
a while-from the earlier much lower levels; but then tended to diminish
as urban population came to dominate the country and as the rural
reservoirs of migration became proportionally much smaller. For old,
and perhaps for young countries also, there must have been a secular
swing in the proportions of savings or capital formation to total eco-
nomic product. Per capita product in pre-industrial times was not large
enough to permit as high a nationwide rate of saving or capital forma-
tion as was attained in the course of industrial development: this is
7Prokopovich's data on Prussia, from the source cited in footnote 1, indicate a sub-  tantial widening in income inequality in the early period. The share of the lower 90 per  cent of the population declines from 73 per cent in 1854 to 65 per cent in 1875; the share  of the top 5 per cent rises from 21 to 25 per cent. But I do not know enough about the  data for the early years to evaluate the reliability of the finding.


---Economics-1955-0-22.txt---
suggested by present comparisons between net capital formation rates
of 3 to 5 per cent of national product in underdeveloped countries and
rates of 10 to 15 per cent in developed countries. If then, at least in the
older countries, and perhaps even in the younger ones-prior to initia-
tion of the process of modern development-we begin with low secular
levels in the savings proportions, there would be a rise in the early
phases to appreciably higher levels. We also know that during recent
periods the net capital formation proportion and even the gross, failed
to rise and perhaps even declined.
Other trends might be suggested that would possibly trace long
swings similar to those for inequality in income structure, rate of growth
of population, rate of urbanization and internal migration, and the pro-
portion of savings or capital formation to national product. For ex-
ample, such swings might be found in the ratio of foreign trade to
domestic activities; in the aspects, if we could only measure them prop-
erly, of government activity that bear upon market forces (there
must have been a phase of increasing freedom of market forces,
giving way to greater intervention by government). But the suggestions
already made suffice to indicate that the long swing in income inequality
must be viewed as part of a wider process of economic growth, and
interrelated with similar movements in other elements. The long alter-
nation in the rate of growth of population can be seen partly as a cause,
partly as an effect of the long swing in income inequality which was
associated with a secular rise in real per capita income levels. The long
swing in income inequality is also probably closely associated with the
swing in capital formation proportions-in so far as wider inequality
makes for higher, and narrower inequality for lower, country-wide sav-
ings proportions.
IV. Comparison of Developed and Underdeveloped Countries
What is the bearing of the experience of the developed countries upon
the economic growth of underdeveloped countries? Let us examine
briefly the data on income distribution in the latter, and speculate upon
some of the implications.
As might have been expected, such data for underdeveloped countries
are scanty. For the present purpose distributions of family income for
India in 1949-50, for Ceylon in 1950, and for Puerto Rico in 1948 were
used. While the coverage is narrow and the margin of error wide, the
data show that income distribution in these underdeveloped countries
is somewhat more unequal than in the developed countries during the
period after the second world war. Thus the shares of the lower 3 quin-
tiles are 28 per cent in India, 30 per cent in Ceylon, and 24 per cent in
Puerto Rico-compared with 34 per cent in the United States and 36


---Economics-1955-0-23.txt---
per cent in the United Kingdom. The shares of the top quintile are 55
per cent in India, 50 per cent in Ceylon, and 56 per cent in Puerto Rico,
compared with 44 per cent in the United States and 45 per cent in the
United Kingdom.8
This comparison is for income before direct taxes and excluding free
benefits from governments. Since the burden and progressivity of direct
taxes are much greater in developed countries, and since it is in the
latter that substantial volumes of free economic assistance are extended
to the lower-income groups, a comparison in terms of income net of
direct taxes and including government benefits would only accentuate
the wider inequality of income distributions in the underdeveloped coun-
tries. Is this difference a reliable reflection of wider inequality also
in the distribution of secular income levels in underdeveloped countries?
Even disregarding the margins of error in the data, the possibility
raised earlier in this paper that transient disturbances in income levels
may be more conspicuous under conditions of primitive material and
economic technology would affect the comparison just made. Since the
distributions cited reflect the annual income levels, a greater allowance
should perhaps be made for transient disturbances in the distributions
for the underdeveloped than in those for the developed countries.
Whether such a correction would obliterate the difference is a matter
on which I have no relevant evidence.
Another consideration might tend to support this qualification. Un-
derdeveloped countries are characterized by low average levels of in-
come per capita, low enough to raise the question how the populations
manage to survive. Let us assume that these countries represent fairly
unified population groups, and exclude, for the moment, areas that
combine large native populations with small enclaves of nonnative,
privileged minorities, e.g., Kenya and Rhodesia, where income inequal-
ity, because of the excessively high income shares of the privileged
minority, is appreciably wider than even in the underdeveloped coun-
tries cited above.9 On this assumption, one may infer that in countries

---Economics-1955-0-24.txt---
with low average income, the secular level of income in the lower brac-
kets could not be below a fairly sizable proportion of average income
otherwise, the groups could not survive. This means, to use a purely
hypothetical figure, that the secular level of the share of the lowest
decile could not fall far short of 6 or 7 per cent, i.e., the lowest decile
could not have a per capita income less than six- or seven-tenths of the
countrywide average. In more advanced countries, with higher average
per capita incomes, even the secular share of the lowest bracket could
easily be a smaller fraction of the countrywide average, say as small as
2 or 3 per cent for the lowest decile, i.e., from a fifth to a third of the
countrywide average-without implying a materially impossible eco-
nomic position for that group. To be sure, there is in all countries con-
tinuous pressure to raise the relative position of the bottom-income
groups; but the fact remains that the lower limit of the proportional
share in the secular income structure is higher when the real country-
wide per capita income is low than when it is high.
If the long-term share of the lower-income groups is larger in the
underdeveloped than in the average countries, income inequality in the
former should be narrower, not wider as we have found. However, if
the lower brackets receive larger shares, and at the same time the very
top brackets also receive larger shares-which would mean that the
intermediate income classes would not show as great a progression from
the bottom-the net effect may well be wider inequality. To illustrate,
let us compare the distributions for India and the United States. The
first quintile in India receives 8 per cent of total income, more than the 6
per cent share of the first quintile in the United States. But the second
quintile in India receives only 9 per cent, the third 11, and the fourth
16; whereas in the United States, the shares of these quintiles are 12,
16, and 22 respectively. This is a rough statistical reflection of a fairly
common observation relating to income distributions in underdeveloped
compared with developed countries. The former have no "middle"
classes: there is a sharp contrast between the preponderant proportion
of population whose average income is well below the generally low
countrywide average, and a small top group with a very large relative
income excess. The developed countries, on the other hand, are charac-
terized by a much more gradual rise from low to high shares, with sub-
stantial groups receiving more than the high countrywide income
average, and the top groups securing smaller shares than the comparable
ordinal groups in underdeveloped countries.
It is, therefore, possible that even the distributions of secular income
levels would be more unequal in underdeveloped than in developed
countries-not in the sense that the shares of the lower brackets would
be lower in the former than in the latter, but in the sense that the shares


---Economics-1955-0-25.txt---
of the very top groups would be higher and that those of the groups
below the top would all be significantly lower than a low countrywide
income average. This is even more likely to be true of the distribution
of income net of direct taxes and inclusive of free government benefits.
But whether a high probability weight can be attached to this conjecture
is a matter for further study.
In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I assume that it is true:
that the secular income structure is somewhat more unequal in under-
developed countries than in the more advanced-particularly in those
of Western and Northern Europe and their economically developed
descendants in the New World (the United States, Canada, Australia,
and New Zealand). This conclusion has a variety of important impli-
cations and leads to some pregnant questions, of which only a few can
be stated here.
In the first place, the wider inequality in the secular income structure
of underdeveloped countries is associated with a much lower level of
average income per capita. Two corollaries follow-and they would
follow even if the income inequalities were of the same relative range
in the two groups of countries. First, the impact is far sharper in the
underdeveloped countries, where the failure to reach an already low
countrywide average spells much greater material and psychological
misery than similar proportional deviations from the average in the
richer, more advanced countries. Second, positive savings are obviously
possible only at much higher relative income levels in the underdeveloped
countries: if in the more advanced countries some savings are possible
in the fourth quintile, in the underdeveloped countries savings could be
realized only at the very peak of the income pyramid, say by the top
5 or 3 per cent. If so, the concentration of savings and of assets is even
more pronounced than in the developed countries; and the effects of
such concentration in the past may serve to explain the peculiar charac-
teristics of the secular income structure in underdeveloped countries
today.
The second implication is that this unequal income structure pre-
sumably coexisted with a low rate of growth of income per capita. The
underdeveloped countries today have not always lagged behind the
presently developed areas in level of economic performance; indeed,
some of the former may have been the economic leaders of the world in
the centuries preceding the last two. The countries of Latin America,
Africa, and particularly those of Asia, are underdeveloped today be-
cause in the last two centuries, and even in recent decades, their rate of
economic growth has been far lower than that in the Western World-
and low indeed, if any growth there was, on a per capita basis. The
underlying shifts in industrial structure, the opportunities for internal


---Economics-1955-0-26.txt---
mobility and for economic improvement, were far more limited than
in the more rapidly growing countries now in the developed category.
There was no hope, within the lifetime of a generation, of a significantly
perceptible rise in the level of real income, or even that the next genera-
tion might fare much better. It was this hope that served as an impor-
tant and realistic compensation for the wide inequality in income dis-
tribution that characterized the presently developed countries during
the earlier phases of their growth.
The third implication follows from the preceding two. It is quite
possible that income inequality has not narrowed in the underdeveloped
countries within recent decades. There is no empirical evidence to check
this conjectural implication, but it is suggested by the absence, in these
areas, of the dynamic forces associated with rapid growth that in the
developed countries checked the upward trend of the upper-income
shares that was due to the cumulative effect of continuous concentra-
tion of past savings; and it is also indicated by the failure of the politi-
cal and social systems of underdeveloped countries to initiate the govern-
mental or political practices that effectively bolster the weak positions
of the lower-income classes. Indeed, there is a possibility that inequality
in the secular income structure of underdeveloped countries may have
widened in recent decades-the only qualification being that where
there has been a recent shift from colonial to independent status, a
privileged, nonnative minority may have been eliminated. But the im-
plication, in terms of the income distribution among the native popula-
tion proper, still remains plausible.
The somber picture just presented may be an oversimplified one. But
I believe that it is sufficiently realistic to lend weight to the questions
it poses-questions as to the bearing of the recent levels and trends in
income inequality, and the factors that determine them, upon the future
prospect of underdeveloped countries within the orbit of the free world.
The questions are difficult, but they must be faced unless we are
willing completely to disregard past experience or to extrapolate me-
chanically oversimplified impressions of past development. The first
question is: Is the pattern of the older developed countries likely to be
repeated in the sense that in the early phases of industrialization in the
underdeveloped countries income inequalities will tend to widen before
the leveling forces become strong enough first to stabilize and then re-
duce income inequalities? While the future cannot be an exact repetition
of the past, there are already certain elements in the present conditions
of underdeveloped societies, e.g., "swarming" of population due to sharp
cuts in death rates unaccompanied by declines in birth rates-that
threaten to widen inequality by depressing the relative position of lower-
income groups even further. Furthermore, if and when industrialization


---Economics-1955-0-27.txt---
begins, the dislocating effects on these societies, in which there is often
an old hardened crust of economic and social institutions, are likely to
to be quite sharp-so sharp as to destroy the positions of some of the
lower groups more rapidly than opportunities elsewhere in the economy
may be created for them.
The next question follows from an affirmative answer to the first.
Can the political framework of the underdeveloped societies withstand
the strain which further widening of income inequality is likely to gen-
erate? This query is pertinent if it is realized that the real per capita
income level of many underdeveloped societies today is lower than the
per capita income level of the presently developed societies before their
initial phases of industrialization. And yet the stresses of the disloca-
tions incident to early phases of industrialization in the developed coun-
tries were sufficiently acute to strain the political and social fabric of
society, force major political reforms, and sometimes result in civil war.
The answer to the second question may be negative, even granted
that industrialization may be accompanied by a rise in real per capita
product. If, for many groups in society, the rise is even partly offset by
a decline in their proportional share in total product; if, consequently,
it is accompanied by widening of income inequality, the resulting pres-
sures and conflicts may necessitate drastic changes in social and political
organization. This gives rise to the next and crucial question: How
can either the institutional and political framework of the underde-
veloped societies or the processes of economic growth and industrializa-
tion be modified to favor a sustained rise to higher levels of economic
performance and yet avoid the fatally simple remedy of an authoritarian
regime that would use the population as cannon-fodder in the fight for
economic achievement? How to minimize the cost of transition and
avoid paying the heavy price-in internal tensions, in long-run ineffi-
ciency in providing means for satisfying wants of human beings as
individuals-which the inflation of political power represented by
authoritarian regimes requires?
Facing these acute problems, one is cognizant of the dangers of tak-
ing an extreme position. One extreme-particularly tempting to us-
is to favor repetition of past patterns of the now developed countries,
patterns that, under the markedly different conditions of the presently
underdeveloped countries, are almost bound to put a strain on the exist-
ing social and economic institutions and eventuate in revolutionary ex-
plosions and authoritarian regimes. There is danger in simple analogies;
in arguing that because an unequal income distribution in Western
Europe in the past led to accumulation of savings and financing of basic
capital formation, the preservation or accentuation of present income
inequalities in the underdeveloped countries is necessary to secure the


---Economics-1955-0-28.txt---
same result. Even disregarding the implications for the lower-income
groups, we may find that in at least some of these countries today the
consumption propensities of upper-income groups are far higher and
savings propensities far lower than were those of the more puritanical
upper-income groups of the presently developed countries. Because they
may have proved favorable in the past, it is dangerous to argue that
completely free markets, lack of penalties implicit in progressive taxa-
tion, and the like are indispensable for the economic growth of the now
underdeveloped countries. Under present conditions the results may be
quite the opposite-withdrawal of accumulated assets to relatively
"safe" channels, either by flight abroad or into real estate; and the
inability of governments to serve as basic agents in the kind of capital
formation that is indispensable to economic growth. It is dangerous to
argue that, because in the past foreign investment provided capital
resources to spark satisfactory economic growth in some of the smaller
European countries or in Europe's descendants across the seas, similar
effects can be expected today if only the underdeveloped countries can
be convinced of the need of a "favorable climate." Yet, it is equally
dangerous to take the opposite position and claim that the present prob-
lems are entirely new and that we must devise solutions that are the
product of imagination unrestrained by knowledge of the past, and
therefore full of romantic violence. What we need, and I am afraid it
is but a truism, is a clear perception of past trends and of conditions
under which they occurred, as well as knowledge of the conditions that
characterize the underdeveloped countries today. With this as a begin-
ning, we can then attempt to translate the elements of a properly under-
stood past into the conditions of an adequately understood present.
V. Concluding Remarks
In concluding this paper, I am acutely conscious of the meagerness
of reliable information presented. The paper is perhaps 5 per cent
empirical information and 95 per cent speculation, some of it possibly
tainted by wishful thinking. The excuse for building an elaborate struc-
ture on such a shaky foundation is a deep interest in the subject and
a wish to share it with members of the Association. The formal and no
less genuine excuse is that the subject is central to much of economic
analysis and thinking; that our knowledge of it is inadequate; that a
more cogent view of the whole field may help channel our interests and
work in intellectually profitable directions; that speculation is an effec-
tive way of presenting a broad view of the field; and that so long as it
is recognized as a collection of hunches calling for further investigation
rather than a set of fully tested conclusions, little harm and much good
may result.


---Economics-1955-0-29.txt---
Let me add two final comments. The first bears upon the importance
of additional knowledge and a better view of the secular structure of
personal income distribution. Since this distribution is a focal point at
which the functioning of the economic system impinges upon the human
beings who are the living members of society and for whom and through
whom the society operates, it is an important datum for understanding
the reactions and behavior patterns of human beings as producers, con-
sumers, and savers. It follows that better knowledge and comprehension
of the subject are indispensable, not only in and of itself but also as
a step in learning more about the functioning of society-in both the
long and short run. Without better knowledge of the trends in secular
income structure and of the factors that determine them, our under-
standing of the whole process of economic growth is limited; and any
insight we may derive from observing changes in countrywide aggre-
gates over time will be defective if these changes are not translated into
movements of shares of the various income groups.
But more than that, such knowledge will contribute to a better evalua-
tion of past and present theorizing on the subject of economic growth.
It was pointed out in the opening lines of this paper that the field is dis-
tinguished by looseness of concepts, extreme scarcity of relevant data,
and, particularly, pressures of strongly held opinions. The distribution
of national product among the various groups is a subject of acute inter-
est to many and is discussed at length in any half-articulate society.
When empirical data are scanty, as they are in this field, the natural
tendency in such discussion is to generalize from what little experience
is available-most often the short stretch of historical experience within
the horizon of the interested scholar, which is brought to bear upon the
particular policy problems in the forefront. It has repeatedly been ob-
served that the grand dynamic economics of the classical school of the
late 18th and early 19th centuries was a generalization, the main empiri-
cal contents of which were the observed developments during half to
three quarters of a century in England, the mother country of that
school; and that it bore many of the limitations which the brevity and
exceptional character of that period and that place naturally imposed
upon the theoretical structure. It is also possible that much of Marxian
economics may be an overgeneralization of imperfectly understood
trends in England during the first half of the 19th century when income
inequality may have widened; and that extrapolations of these trends
(e.g., increasing misery of the working classes, polarization of society,
etc.) proved wrong because due regard was not given to the possible
effects upon the economic and social structure of technological changes,
extension of the economic system to much of the then unoccupied world,
and the very structure of human wants. Wider empirical foundations,


---Economics-1955-0-30.txt---
observation of a greater variety of historical experience, and a recogni-
tion that any body of generalizations tends to reflect some limited
stretch of historical experience must force us to evaluate any theory-
past or present-in terms of its empirical contents and the consequent
limits of its applicability-a precept which naturally should also be
applied to the oversimplified generalizations contained in the present
paper.
My final comment relates to the directions in which further explora-
tion of the subject is likely to lead us. Even in this simple initial sketch,
findings in the field of demography were used and references to political
aspects of social life were made. Uncomfortable as are such ventures
into unfamiliar and perhaps treacherous fields, they can not and should
not be avoided. If we are to deal adequately with processes of economic
growth, processes of long-term change in which the very technological,
demographic, and social frameworks are also changing-and in ways
that decidedly affect the operation of economic forces proper-it is
inevitable that we venture into fields beyond those recognized in recent
decades as the province of economics proper. For the study of the eco-
nomic growth of nations, it is imperative that we become more familiar
with findings in those related social disciplines that can help us under-
stand population growth patterns, the nature and forces in technological
change, the factors that determine the characteristics and trends in
political institutions, and generally patterns of behavior of human
beings-partly as a biological species, partly as social animals. Effective
work in this field necessarily calls for a shift from market economics
to political and social economy.


---Economics-1956-0-03.txt---
The nation whose agriculture will be analyzed in this address is
almost solely that of the United States of America. Other nations will
be brought into it only where international trade and other relations
are involved. This does not mean that significant parallels and con-
trasts with other nations cannot be made, but there will be no time and
space for them tonight.
The analysis will begin with a statement of the relative magnitude
and importance of agriculture in the nation's economy, and past trends
in the same, according to several measures. This will be followed by
projections of the changes in these magnitudes by 1975 and after, and
accompanying changes in land use. Then will come an analysis of the
welfare aspects of the subject, how agriculture is sharing in the na-
tional income and improvements in living, and the outlook for the
same. Deviations from trend in wars and postwars and in and out of
business recessions will receive attention in this section. The analysis
up to this point will then be brought to a head in a statement of the
meaning of the foregoing for agriculture and for the nation. This will
point up the economic problems facing American agriculture, which
will then be defined and briefly analyzed in terms of policy and pro-
gram. The final section of this address will consider briefly some of the
political aspects of the solution of these problems.
What I am saying next may seem to some entirely unnecessary, but
in fact it is not. It is that the analysis will be from the point of view
of the over-all economy, not that of within the agricultural part of it.
What is said on some points may therefore even come as a shock to
some who have been reared as agricultural economists within agri-
culture.
The point in time which will be taken as the present will be 1954 or


---Economics-1956-0-04.txt---
1955 when the data are available for these years, and otherwise the
census year 1950. Only part of the 1954 census data are now available.
Most of the data used in this analysis are published in annual reports
such as The Statistical Abstract of the U.S., 1955, Business Statistics,
1955, of the Department of Commerce, and The Farm Income Situa-
tion of the Agricultural Marketing Service of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. The 1955 data are mostly estimates based on the monthly
reports or releases of these agencies. The writer assumes responsibility
for these, but he has had much help in this and otherwise from
members of the staff of the Agricultural Marketing Service, particularly
its Division of Agricultural Economics and the Farm Finance Section
of the Agricultural Research Service. Also a choice has sometimes had
to be made as to which of two sources to use, such as between the Census
and U.S.D.A. series on farm labor force. The writer assumes full re-
sponsibility for this choice. Finally, no official data are available for
some of the series before 1929. The writer has extrapolated for these
years in a few cases.
I. Agriculture in the Nation's Economy
Labor Force
The magnitude and importance of agriculture in the nation's economy
can be measured in several ways, with wide differences in the results.
No one of these measures gives the whole picture. Table I assembles
the most authentic of the available data on labor force. Two series on
the farm labor force are given, the first, that of the Bureau of the
Census, which includes only those whose usual or chief activity is in
agriculture, and the second, that of the Department of Agriculture,
which counts all persons working on farms regardless of chief activity.
The simplest and most familiar of the measures of the relative mag-
nitude of agriculture is the percentage of the national civilian labor
force employed mainly in agriculture, which has fallen off a half since
1930 and two-fifths since 1940, but slightly less if part-time off-farm
workers are counted with farm labor force, since the number of these
is increasing relatively. The farm and nonfarm series in this table are
also not strictly comparable because of another reason, the agriculture
series does not include unemployed farm laborers. These averaged only
143,000 in 1954 and 173,000 in 1950. It will be noted that there has been
no decline in the farm labor force since 1953. In fact, it was higher last
fall than in any fall since 1950.
It will be noticed from Table I that the decline in the percentage
of the labor force employed mainly in agriculture has been 1.84 in the
five years since 1950, as against 5.25 in the war decade of the 1940's.
In the 1930's, it was only 3.76. This is the decade when several million


---Economics-1956-0-05.txt---
workers were dammed up back on the farms because there were few
jobs open to them in the cities.
In terms of total farm employment considered by itself, the decline
from 1940 to 1950 was 1.5 per cent a year compared with 0.7 per cent in
1920-1930. In the three years from 1950 to 1953, it was at the rate of
2.7 per cent a year. The 1955 index of farm labor employment is 61
as compared with 62 in 1954 with 1910-14 as 100.
A hundred years earlier (1850), nearly two-thirds (64 per cent) of
the U.S. labor force was working on its farms. The nonfarm labor
force multiplied 20 times during the century; the farm labor force
multiplied 2.4 times to its peak in 1910 and then fell more than one-
third.
Closely related to the foregoing is the percentage of the nation's
population living on farms-13.5 per cent in 1955 as compared with
16.6 per cent in 1950, 23.2 per cent in 1940, and 30.1 per cent in 1920.
These percentages are larger than those of the labor force because farm
families are larger than urban families, and because of the nonfarm
workers living in farm households. In 1955 (April), 36.6 per cent of
the employed persons in farm households were in nonagricultural em-
ployment. Only five years earlier, the comparable figure was 30 per
cent. The farm population was an eighth smaller in 1955 than in 1950.


---Economics-1956-0-06.txt---
Thus a large part of the retreat out of agriculture since 1940 has meant
actual physical migration only to the extent of traveling to work and
back each day.
Tangible Productive Assets
A full measure of agriculture's magnitude, however, requires in-
cluding its land and capital goods as well as its labor force, the capital
goods being largely stored-up labor used in further production in the
form of land improvements, seedings, orchards, growing timber, farm
buildings, farm equipment, productive livestock and workstock, etc.,
and comparing this with a parallel summation for nonfarm assets used
in production. This can be done with only rough approximation, as in
Table II. The most serious difficulty arises from the changes in the
price level, particularly as it affects different types of assets. It is for
this reason that the three price index series are included in Table II.
These in general have their high and low points at about the same
time, but the farm-product prices move over the widest range and the



---Economics-1956-0-07.txt---
farm real estate prices over the narrowest range. The other difficulty
is that some of the nonfarm assets are difficult to measure and hence
are not represented in the totals, so that the percentages in the third
column are all a little high. It is a large enough sample, however, so
that it indicates change pretty accurately.
We can probably safely say that at least a good fifth of the tan-
gible productive assets of the nation are still in agriculture, as against
only one-tenth of the labor force. Agriculture's share increased sharply
in the war years whereas it had been dropping steadily before 1930. In
1910, the United States was still two-fifths agricultural in terms of pro-
ductive assets. The next two decades saw this two-fifths reduced almost
to one-fifth. The first world war contributed to this, and then the great
surge in the electrical and automotive industries in the 1920's. The low
levels of farm real estate prices in the 1920's and up till 1940 were also
a strong factor in the relative decline of agriculture's share in these
decades. But from 1930 to 1940 the nonfarm component was almost
stagnant. The advance in the farm component from 1940 to 1950 in-
cluded a doubling in constant dollars of the investment in machinery
and motor vehicles. Farm real estate prices per acre rose the same as the
price level. The relative decrease in agriculture's share since 1945 is due
to the great burst in industrial and urban expansion that set in after the
war and early postwar years. This effort was centered on military out-
put during the war. The farm component can be expected to decline still
further in the next two decades.
Per person in the labor force, productive farm assets in 1950 and
since have been around 2.5 times those in the nonfarm sector, as com-
pared with about 1.6 times back in 1910. In the two decades following
1910, the farm and nonfarm productive assets per worker came pretty
nearly into balance as a result of the rapid industrialization and mech-
anization of our country in that period. The sharp reversal to 2.6 times
the productive nonfarm assets per worker came in only the twelve years
from 1940 to 1952. The mechanization of farming and the accompany-
ing decline in the farm labor force account for most of this.
If the assets per worker were figured in terms of the number of
workers including off-farm workers, given in the third columnl of Table
I, they would be $11,000 instead of the $13,630 in Table II. The true
figure is part way between these. But the course of change over the
decades would be very little different.
Comparing the changes in percentage of the labor force in agriculture
in Table I with the changes in Table II in percentage of total produc-
tive assets in agriculture over the whole period from 1910 to 1955
thus brings out one sharp difference, namely, that whereas the two
series declined together to 1940, the farm labor percentage then dropped


---Economics-1956-0-08.txt---
sharply for a spell while the farm assets percentage turned upward.
They are now declining together again.
Not included in productive assets in the foregoing are the quick-
turnover or circulating types of capital goods-on the farm, the com-
mercial fertilizer and lime, the sprays, the feed for livestock, the fuel
and oil used with the tractors, and the like. Much of the feed used by
dairy and poultry farmers is today a commercial product in part. The
counterparts of these in the nonfarm sector are the raw materials of
industry, the fuel and power used, the merchandise purchased by whole-
salers and retailers, and the like. Any comparison of these magnitudes
for the farm and nonfarm sectors must take account of the rate of turn-
over, or the time period between purchase of the supplies and raw ma-
terials and the sale of the final product. This would be too large a task
of estimation for this occasion. It can be pointed out, however, that
these types of capital goods are playing a larger and larger role in ag-
riculture. They were a half larger in 1950 than in 1940 after adjust-
ing for the rise in prices.
Gross and Net National Product
The measures which combine labor force with other productive
agents are of course either total inputs or total outputs. The total in-
put measure is dangerous to use because only arbitrary values can be
assigned to family labor and some of the other input factors. Total out-
put of course includes the effect of any changes in the input-output func-
tion because of changes in technology, managerial skill, and the like.
Nevertheless, it is the best one to use. In Table III are the estimates of
farm gross national product and total gross national product (GNP) in
terms of current dollars with the accompanying percentages, and paral-
lel data for farm and national net product. The year 1929 is included
along with 1930 because 1930 was a depression year. A gross product
summation for a particular industry must be in terms of the value added
by that industry. Otherwise the separate industry totals cannot be com-
bined without a large amount of double and even triple counting. Still,
the term "gross" applied to the product of a particular industry needs
to be clearly understood as differing from the net product for that in-
dustry only in that no deductions have been made for capital consump-
tion, depreciation, and the like. Agriculture's percentages of the na-
tional total are slightly lower in terms of net than of gross product
because of agriculture's larger use of capital goods especially from 1940
on, and hence larger capital consumption. Except for this, the series
for gross and for net product run in close parallel, and the gross product
will serve our purpose best.
In Chart I, the three series of agriculture's share which we have been
exploring, the share in the labor force, the share in tangible assets used


---Economics-1956-0-09.txt---
in production, and the share in GNP, are plotted for 1910 to 1955. The
overriding factor in the situation is that as our country has progressed
economically, it has devoted a smaller share of its productive effort and
resources to producing agricultural products, as indicated by the series
for share of the GNP. Consequently, although agriculture has grown
with the nation, it has grown more slowly. The comparison in con-
stant dollars is, for the over-all economy, an increase of 3.6 times from
1910 to 1953, and for agriculture, an increase of 2.7 times. For the
period 1929 to 1953, the comparison is 2.1 times for the over-all econ-
omy, and 1.4 for agriculture. There is nothing abnormal about this
divergence. But the extent of such divergence is likely to vary much
among nations depending upon their resources, rate of growth and
earnings level, and foreign trade.
The other outstanding feature in the picture of change here pre-
sented is the rapid substitution of capital goods for labor in the agri-
cultural input mix since 1940-labor down from 17.1 to 10.0 per cent
of the national labor force, and the share of productive assets used in
agriculture up fully as much. The share of the gross national product
actually increased from 1940 to 1951 along with this substitution, but
with a booming business economy since and declining prices for farm
products, the 7.5 of 1951 has shrivelled to 6.0 or below. The develop-


---Economics-1956-0-10.txt---
ments in the 1950 to 1955 years are of high significance and are there-
fore shown in detail in the chart. Does the direction of the changes since
1951 portend the next decade or so, or is it merely a short-run adjust-
ment to a normal level which will be reached presently?
It should also be pointed out at this stage that the absolute level of
agriculture's share in GNP is not quite as low as the figures in the tables
and charts indicate, because the farm-produced farm products consumed
by the farm family and the use of the farm dwellings are valued at the
farm and not at what the farm family would have to pay for them in the
city. Any accurate comparison of farm and nonfarm output must put
both on the same basis. In a dominantly urban country, this had better
be urban rather than farm value. There is also the consumption use of
the farm automobile charged off partly as an expense in figuring GNP.
If rectification is made for these three items, the 7.4 per cent of GNP
in Table III becomes something like 8.4.
II. Projection to 1975 and Beyond
Land Use
In the end we shall want to project the agriculture of the United
States in 1975 and beyond in terms of labor force, productive assets,
and gross national product just as we have in 1950-55 and before. But


---Economics-1956-0-11.txt---
before we can do this we need to analyze output potentials and the
outlook for demand for farm products. The first potential to consider
is land and land use, for after all the land is still the basis for agricul-
ture. Poultry farms may themselves, it is true, use only a little of it;
but the feed they buy still mostly has to be grown on land somewhere.
Chemical fertilizers can make a given area of land go further in pro-
ducing feed and forage, but only within limits.
In recent years one hears occasional statements that make it appear
that the agricultural output of this country is greatly limited by the fact
that it has very little new land to occtupy. I quote exactly from Ronald
Mighell in his American Agriculture, Its Structure and Place in the
Economy (1955), the first volume of a study sponsored by the Social
Science Research Council:
On the supply side, until 1900, the main explanation for expansion was
the continuing occupation and development of new land resources. By
1920, nearly all these possibilities were exhausted except for limited
areas to be developed through irrigation and drainage (p. 6).
This is a valid statement only if the term "new" is given a special defi-
nition.
The most extreme example of this is found in the writings of the
American historian, Walter Prescott Webb, of the University of Texas.
He almost tries to make it appear that once this limit of new farm land
and takings was reached about 1920, not only did this nation's great
era of growth come to an end, but also that of most of Europe.1 Webb
fails to comprehend the full meaning of the economic doctrine of the
balance between the extensive and intensive margins; that at least from
1870 on, the intensification of the use of resources behind the frontier
was a larger part of U.S. growth than the extension of the frontier, and
by 1900, much more important. The passing of the frontier in 1920 was
therefore no jolt to the economy whatever. In agriculture, to be specific,
it weighed much less than the effect in the other direction of tractoriza-
tion of wheat farming in the Great Plains then underway.
In preparing the materials for the land-use part of its report, the
President's.Materials Policy Commission (P.M.P.C.), commonly called
the Paley Commission, in 1952 drew upon a classification of all the land
in the United States that had just been conlpleted by the Soil Conser-
vation Service (SCS).2 Of the 478 millions then in cropland, or pas-
tures in rotation with crops, the SCS concluded that 40 million should
be converted to permanent grassland to prevent further erosion. But it
classified 285 million acres now in permanent Dasture or in woodland as

---Economics-1956-0-12.txt---
potential cropland or cropland and pasture in rotation. The net poten-
tial addition to the then 478 millions of cropland was 245 million acres,
making a total of 723 million acres. Considerable of the 285 million
acres was cropland once, but has been abandoned so long that virtually
it is new land.
How much of this land will need to be improved and brought into
more intensive use, first, by 1975, and then in succeeding decades? This
will depend in part upon the demand for farm products at the time, both
domestic and foreign. In what follows, the same assumptions will be
made as in the P.M.P.C. analysis, except that the since-revised Census
Bureau forecast of 209.5 million will be substituted for the 193.5 mil-
lions of population in 1975 assumed in the P.M.P.C. analysis. If gross
national product and disposable income increase at the same 54 per
cent rate per capita as assumed in the P.M.P.C. analysis, disposable
income will increase 110 per cent over 1950 instead of the P.M.P.C.
projected 96, and consumption of food and other farm products by 53
per cent instead of the P.M.P.C. 38 per cent.
A further important factor is that the increase in domestic demand
for farm products will be weighted considerably on the side of foods
of livestock origin. According to the revised P.M.P.C. analysis, there
will in 1975 be 38 per cent more persons eating 17 per cent more meat
per person and 30 per cent more poultry meat, and drinking 13 per cent
more milk, than in 1950. This will amount to a total increase of two-
thirds in the consumption of these three products. On the other side of
the coin, total consumption of wheat, potatoes, and cotton were pro-
jected to increase only one-third in spite of a 38 per cent increase in the
population. The increase in consumption of meat and milk in the past
few years has been offset a little by a further decline in butter con-
sumption since 1950, but probably will not be from now on. Consump-
tion of eggs and cheese is expected to increase at only about the average
rate for all foods. Over 6 times as many acres are required to produce
a given number of calories in the form of meat, dairy and poultry
products as in the form of foods for direct human consumption-cereal
foods, potatoes, sugar, etc.
As to prospects for demand abroad for U.S. farm products, the
P.M.P.C. report deals with this rather summarily, concluding that
exports will decline from 13 to 9 per cent of total farm output, and
that imports will rise from 10 to 15 per cent of the same base figure.
The decline of exports will arise from efforts of other countries to be
more self-sufficient in foods and fibres, and the increase in imports from
our peoples' wanting to buy more farm products abroad with their
larger incomes-more coffee, tea, fruits, nuts, etc. But agricultural sur-
pluses have become much more of a problem than they were when


---Economics-1956-0-13.txt---
the Paley Commission made its analysis, and measures are likely to
be taken in the next five years or so which may well establish a pattern
of more liberal trading in the country's export products, and this
pattern may carry over into the years following when prices of these
products at home are closer in line with world market prices. It would
therefore now seem that exports of farm products may well hold up to
their present level and even exceed them by a few per cents in the
twenty years to 1975.
With the foregoing outlook for demand for U.S. farm products,
how much of the net available 245 million more acres will be needed by
1975? Of the 478 million in cropland, only around 350 million has
actually been harvested in recent years. The rest has been in the pas-
ture years of a crop-pasture rotation, or in fallow or idle. The P.M.P.C.
conclusions were that very few if any more acres will be actually har-
vested in any one year around 1975 than recently, that the needed in-
crease in farm output will come partly from increased crop yields,
partly from improving pastures so that they will carry more head of
livestock, and partly from more efficient use of feed by livestock; and
that the increased yields per acre of both crops and pasture will come
in large measure from converting 80 million acres now in relatively
poor open pasture into productive crop and pasture rotations with
adequate erosion control. The rotations will be longer and take the form
mostly of reseeding with improved grass and legume mixtures.
The P.M.P.C. report also projected that 10 to 15 million acres of
woodland will be cleared by 1975, th'is just about offsetting the expected
loss of cropland to urban and highway uses.
The reason that the needed increase bv 1975 in output of farm prod-
ucts will come from making present acres more productive, rather than
by bringing more acres into cultivation, is simply that it is cheaper to
do it this way in most situations. This is true even though power equip-
ment is now being applied to the clearing, leveling and drainage of land.
But this will not be true indefinitely in the future unless our popula-
tion growth levels off at an unexpected rate after another decade or so.
It is true in the present because we have such a backlog of technology
not yet put to use. We put part of this to use to give us the increased
supplies needed by the United States and its allies to win the second
world war, and to help in the rehabilitation of allied countries after
the war. Now that these extraordinary needs have slackened we have
our surpluses. As part of the P.M.P.C. study, the scientists working in
different lines of agricultural production in the U.S. Department of Ag-
riculture were asked how much yields per acre, per hundredweight of
feed, and per animal unit would be increased in the United States if
technology now known, or almost known, were applied generally. The


---Economics-1956-0-14.txt---
same questions were asked of the scientists in the land-grant agricul-
tural colleges for their particular states. An average of all the answers
for all farm products was 86 per cent. Much additional cash outlay
for equipment, seeds, fertilizer, sprays, and buildings in some cases,
is needed to apply these new technologies, but the added return, even
under average management, is much in excess of the outlays as long as
the supply of the product does not press on the market and depress
the prices too sharply.
To demonstrate that the foregoing is not just speculation, a group at
Harvard University, working in close collaboration with six New Eng-
land state agricultural experiment stations and extension services and
the U.S. Department of Agriculture, made careful case analyses of a
sample of 241 dairy and dairy-combination farms in fourteen repre-
sentative areas in the six New England states.3 These analyses identi-
fied for each of these farms a set of changes or adjustments which the
operators of these farms said in 1947, 1948, and 1949 that they were
willing to undertake as a means of increasing their farm output and
income. These changes consisted in the main of improving their crop
and pasture land so as to increase its yields, thus being able to feed
more cows and raise more of the replacements for their herds, at the
same time improving the quality of the forage and feeding more of it
so as to get larger outputs per cow, and using more power and ma-
chinery so as to get a larger output per worker. The adjustments thus
identified were projected to increase the net incomes of these farms
by a half in the five to ten years it would take to make them. They
would increase the output of milk by more than 40 per cent.
At the end of only three years, 146 of the farms had progressed to
the point of having made over half of these adjustments and had in-
creased their net incomes by 50 per cent with only a slight increase in
the labor input. Only 35 of them had made little or no headway in the
adjustments and were still farming pretty much as before. Many of
these were farmers who already had pretty good incomes and had little
interest in further exploiting their opportunities. Others were of the type
too conservative to move off dead center. The remaining 60 were af-
fected by major changes in agriculture, such as the following: two
farmers had died; four had consolidated with other farms; seven had
sold out and bought farms with more possibilities; 25 had shifted to
full-time or part-time off-farm work; in nine a son or partner had left
the farm for off-farm work; six had shifted to poultry or other lines

---Economics-1956-0-15.txt---
of production. But this was a period in which off-farm employment was
easy to find and poultry production was expanding rapidly.4
A recent analysis of 47 relatively small cotton, corn, hog and cattle
farms in a small tributary watershed in western Tennessee by Fred
R. Robertson, then of the Tennessee Valley Authority staff, indicates
that these farms could increase their net annual earnings from well un-
der $1000 to nearly $3000, mostly by some combination of the follow-
ing fitted to each farm:
1. Raising the yields per acre of corn and cotton by fuller and better
use of fertilizer, by better adapted varieties or hybrids, by better con-
trol of insects, and by using winter vetch as a green manure and cover
crop.
2. Establishing permanent pastures of white Dutch clover and fes-
cue on the bottom lands, and of sericia lespedeza and Bermuda grass
on the slopes.
3. Temporary summer pasture of sweet sudan grass and millet.
4. Winter grazing of crimson clover and winter oats.
5. Liberal liming and fertilization of pasture and hayland.
6. Larger herds of beef cattle and hogs to use the much larger
supplies of feed, forage, and pasture, and a few more dairy cows. This
is an area which is too far from cities to have a market for fluid milk.
7. Better quality of cattle and swine, two litters of pigs a year in-
stead of one, and better feeding.
8. Planting pine trees on about a sixth of the area, on land now idle
and grown up to weeds and poor grass. These pine stands are projected
to earn an average of $10 per acre per year over their fifty-year growth
cycle. The roughest land will be left in hardwood, and even under good
management will yield less than a dollar per acre per year.
These farms will still have incomes that are too low because they are
too small. The most rational way of enlarging them at the start is to
have the more promising of them buy out the smaller and weaker ones
and thus help these poor families to migrate to better opportunities.
Thus enlarged, the farms remaining will depend less on intensive hand-
labor crops like cotton, and increase the amount of land and capital
goods used with each worker.
These Tennessee farms however, are already diversified much more
than the usual cotton or tobacco farms in the South. It is not that these
farms normally need to reduce their acreages of cotton or tobacco.


---Economics-1956-0-16.txt---
What they need is a hundred acres or more of additional land per farm
on which they can grow feed and as pasture for livestock, and power
equipment with which to handle this land, mostly in periods of the year
when they are not doing cotton or tobacco work.
Small low-income farms like these in Tennessee and most of the
South are not, of course, limited to this region. There are sections where
they are common in almost all the states, even in Western Pennsyl-
vania and conspicuously in blocks of counties in southern Illinois and
Indiana and southeastern Ohio. In fact, farming of this order prevails
in the mountain and Piedmont belt of the Appalachian chain and its
extension all the way from Maine to the Ozarks in Missouri and eastern
Oklahoma. There is much low-incolne farming in the northern cut-over
and sandy outwash areas of the Great Lakes states.
In 1950 more than a fourth of the farms of the United States clas-
sified as "commercial" had product sales of less than $2500, and more
than an eighth had product sales of $250 to $1200. Another 30 per cent
were classed as "part-time" or "residential" because their operators
worked off the farm more than 100 days, or sales of farm products were
less than $250 or less than the off-farm earnings. A large fraction of the
part-time farmers have off-farm earnings that make up fully or largely
for the deficiencies in their farm returns, and part of the residential
farmers have important other sources of income. They may be essen-
tially retired farmers or even landlords, for example. Sixty per cent
of the part-time farmers reported owning automobiles in 1950, and
50 per cent of the residential farmers, as compared with only 40 per
cent of the lowest-income group of commercial farmers. All told, more
than a third of the 5,379,000 farms reported in the 1950 census had in-
comes pretty close to the subsistence level on farms with too limited re-
sources in their present state of development, and a majority of these
had too few acres even if these were fully utilized.
The number of these small low-income farms has been declining
relatively, at least since 1940. Just how much is difficult to state be-
cause of changes in the Census definition of a farm. The decline has
been most marked in the years 1950-55. The Census of 1954 reports
600,000, or 11 per cent, fewer farms than in 1950. Nearly two-thirds of
this decrease was in the number of Class V and Class VI commercial
farms, that is, of farms with product sales of less than $2500 in 1954.
Half the decrease was in farms of less than 50 acres. By 1975 it now
seems reasonable to expect that half of the remaining small low-income
farms will have disappeared as separate farms, and that the Census that
year will report not more than 3.8 to 4.0 million farms, counting in the
part-time and residential farms the same as now.


---Economics-1956-0-17.txt---
Labor Force
WTe are now in a position to project the labor force, productive as-
sets, and gross national product of agriculture in 1975. With respect
to labor force, it is of interest that Colin Clark, in a review of the
P.M.P.C. report in the Review of Economics and Statistics in August
1954, predicted that by 1975 only 2 million workers will be left on
farms in the United States. He arrived at this forecast by projecting
forward geometrically the 13 per cent decline between 1950 and 1953.
To begin with, the available data indicate no decline in the farm labor
force in 1954 and 1955, so that the 13 per cent over five years is only
2.6 per cent a year instead of 4.7; and to project forward in the same
chart the decline from 1940 to 1953 would give something like 3.5 mil-
lion in 1975. But we in this country all recognize that the movement
from the farms after 1940 was unduly large because it had been un-
duly small in the 1930's and because of the war. Projecting forward
on the basis of the decline in the two decades from 1930 to 1950 would
give a figure of around 5 millions, 1 per cent a year figured geometri-
cally. These 5 million workers could be employed on 4 million farms,
an average of 1.25 workers per farm.
Whatever rate of decline is projected forward, it will eventually reach
the zero line and we shall have no agriculture left, all of our land hav-
ing grown up to weeds, grass, brush and trees. Nothing more than an
arithmetical projection of the line of descent in Chart II from 1850 on
would bring it clear to zero by 1975. Of course this line will begin to
level off presently. But some have been saying this ever since 1900.
When will this leveling off begin? The projection labeled (a) in Chart
II indicates my conception of this, in contrast with Clark's labeled
(b). Projecting forward the 1850-to-1940 decrease, or that of 1930 to
1950, would give a zero point about the same as Clark's.
Any projection of the farm labor force must, of course, take into
account the rate of substitution of capital for labor in agriculture. Stud-
ies of the integration of the use of labor and machinery that Harvard
University has been promoting in recent years, aided by a grant from
the Ferguson Foundation, in five major type-of-farming regions, indi-
cate that most farmers cannot afford not to use the power machinery
they are now using, but having it they profit much by using it on more
acres with more livestock. This suggests that the absorption, now under
way, of small farms by more nearly economic family-size units will con-
tinue to be increasingly larger in terms of acres, and much more so in
terms of output. Some of the absorption will, of course, also be by
larger than family-size farms, but little so far indicates that this will
be a large factor in the situation. Also offsetting this latter in part is the


---Economics-1956-0-18.txt---
increasing development and use of power equipment fitted to smaller
farms. The Census data for 1954 indicate that 60 per cent of the farms
had one or more tractors, and 45 per cent had one or more motor trucks
at the time of the enumeration. The net effect will be a further reduction
in the number of farms and probably a reduction in farm labor force
per farm along with this. The following data are pertinent in this con-
nection:
Thus, even while the number of farms was holding about even from
1910 to 1930, the labor force per farm was declining a little because
more members of the family were in school, or engaged in off-farm
work, and a little less labor was being hired. An average labor force
of 1.25 workers per farm in 1975 looks plausible indeed.


---Economics-1956-0-19.txt---
It is not only power and machinery that is being substituted for man
labor; fertilizers and lime, pesticides, improved seed, and better feed-
ing practices and the like commonly increase yields well out of propor-
tion to the increase of labor entailed, and thus in effect substitute capi-
tal for labor. In 1950, the cash outlays for feed, seeds, fertilizer, lime,
sprays, feeder cattle and hogs, hatching eggs and chicks, fuel oil, irri-
gation water, and other purchased items were nearly 40 per cent of the
value of the farm output; in 1920 they were only a little over 20 per
cent of it. On a large truck farm in the East, the outlays on "chemicals"
(fertilizers, sprays, etc.) are larger than those for labor.
Involved in the distribution of the labor force between farm and non-
farm sectors is not only the obvious basic factor that food is making
up a smaller and smaller part of human consumption, but that more
of what is spent for food is not spent for the food itself, but for the
processing and the marketing that go with it and for meals eaten out-
side the home. The consumers of this country have been spending
slightly more than 25 per cent of their disposable income for food since
the second world war. If their disposable income increases 54 per cent
per capita by 1975, and they consume only 11 per cent more food per
capita, as the P.M.P.C. report projects, they would be spending only
18 per cent of their disposable income for food. But this would be
a phenomenon the like of which has seldom been witnessed in modern
times. What we can expect instead is that a good part of the difference
between the 18 and the 25 per cent will be spent in buying more of
what goes with the food and this will add further to the nonfarm labor
force.
Projection to 1975
The projections to 1975 in Chart I are based upon the following
further analysis. First, a farm labor force of 5 mnillions is definitely ac-
cepted as most reasonable to expect, with the number of farms be-
tween 3.8 and 4.0 millions and between 1.25 and 1.30 workers per
farm. Next, the percentage of the farm population that works on farms
is reduced from 26.5 in 1950 to 25.0 on the expectation that still more
members of farm families will work at nonfarm jobs. This will mean a
farm population of 20 millions, or 9.5 per cent of the total population,
matched against 13.5 per cent in 1950. If 40 per cent of the 189.5 non-
farm population are on the nonfarm labor force, the same as in 1950,
this will make a nonfarm labor force of 76 millions compared with 59
millions in 1955. Of the total labor force of 81 millions, around 6 per-
cent will be employed on farms compared with 10 per cent in 1955.
The value of the farm land and buildings, equipment, livestock and
other productive assets per farm worker will not continue to increase


---Economics-1956-0-20.txt---
at the rate of the decade of the 1940's but will nevertheless increase
considerably by 1975. The use of fertilizer, feed, and other rapid-
turnover capital goods will increase still more. It is projected in Chart
I that the productive asset will represent no larger a share of the na-
tional total in 1975 than 12 per cent. Involved in such a projection is
the difficult matter of what is going to happen to land prices relative
to the general price level, and along with this, the relative level of
prices of farm products, which will be discussed in the next section.
Given the foregoing shares of the nation's labor and productive assets
in 1975, what can we expect of agriculture's share of the gross national
product? In balance, it would seem that the lowering of farm price
levels now under way, except as droughts or wars intervene, plus
strengthening of efforts to shift land out of surplus lines, and particu-
larly to grassland farming and livestock production, plus strengthened
effort to expand domestic consumption, especially of livestock products
among lower-income families, all of this really being forced on Con-
gress and the administration, plus the lowering of costs, are going to
bring farm prices and receipts from marketing into better balance with
cash outlays year by year from 1956 on, with the result that the de-
cline in agriculture's share of GNP will begin to be checked a little
in another year or two, and this trend will strengthen a little from 1960
on. But given no war years and relatively stable business conditions,
the curve of decline will by no means flatten out. This nation will con-
tinue to be less and less an agricultural nation. The 5.9 per cent of the
GNP in 1955 may fall as low as 3.5 per cent by 1975; but 4.0 will be
a safer projection. A major factor in the answer will be whether our
people will prefer more output of goods or more leisure as they go
forward, and whether their way of using this leisure will call for large
outlays, like travel, or for more quiet and peaceful living.
Beyond 1975
The projections thus far have been carefully centered on 1975 in
order to give them unity. Even looking ahead no farther than this,
some very large assumptions have had to be made; one not mentioned
is that there will be no revolutionary innovations such as might arise
from the use of nuclear energy. Events and developments of these sev-
eral sorts which have been assumed away may be almost all-determina-
tive in another twenty-five years after 1975. Nevertheless, some looking
into the farther future lends insight into the near at hand.
The actual innovation process tends to be gradual in agriculture. For
some particular crop, it may prove fast enough to double average
yields per acre in ten years. The average cotton yield per acre of 440
in 1955 is 70 per cent higher than the yields of around ten years ear-


---Economics-1956-0-21.txt---
lier. Recent potato yields are 70 per cent above those of around ten
years before; recent corn yields a fourth higher. In particular special-
ized areas, the yields may have doubled in ten years; for example, po-
tatoes in Aroostock County, Maine. In none of these cases has a large
expanding market been available. The increased efficiency in broiler
production, however, has been favored with a rapidly expanding mar-
ket, and thus with more than a five-fold increase in output since 1940.
But when these amazing gains are averaged in with the vast bulk of
total agricultural output, only under exceptional circumstances such as
since 1940 is the rate of output gain accelerated much.
To illustrate the foregoing, consider the possible impact of the de-
velopment of nuclear energy upon agriculture. Until such time as this
can be used advantageously in place of fuel oil in farm machines, its
impacts will be principally a speeding up of the process of developing
improved varieties and hybrids of plants and of control of pests on
the farm and of infestation and spoilage of products in storage. This
speeding up will intensify the "surplus problem" and make it the more
necessary to develop and use a realistic procedure of adjustment of
agricultural production to the market. But it will not turn agriculture
upside down.
First as to the population base for this longer future. It seems most
rational to expect that rates of population increase in our own country
will slacken gradually, but not, except for some new development, get
back to the levels of the depression 1930's. The arts of agricultural
production and development of our land resources will, however, be able
to advance fast enough to permit a steady rise in the level of food
consumption in the country, and also of clothing as far as the cotton
part of it is concerned. This does not mean that over the longer pull
the prices of farm products may not advance more than prices in gen-
eral, as indeed they have over the long-run past. If they do, it will be
because agricultural land resources are after all somewhat limited, and
basic science and its applications may not, as was true in the past
century, make as much progress in agriculture as outside of it. But re-
sults of this kind will probably not appear much before the end of the
twentieth century. What we may get instead is periods of perhaps a
decade long when agriculture slackens its advance too much and prices
are too high, in reaction to having advanced too fast for a while, with
surpluses and too low prices in consequence, as perhaps in the last
few years.
The foregoing is solely in terms of food and cotton and population
considered for the United States as if it were isolated from the world.
What about the larger needs and demands for our farm products in
other parts of the world? The answer to this question so far as the


---Economics-1956-0-22.txt---
United States is concerned lies largely in how much of other goods we are
able and willing to import from the rest of the world, or how much we
spend in travel abroad or in foreign investments. In the aggregate these
countries cannot buy food materials and cotton from us unless we give
them some buying power by buying from them. Individual countries, or
groups of them, can of course do so by triangular exchange, but not all
of them together. As our country advances farther its people will want,
and with some products definitely need, more and more from other
countries. But still there will continue to be, for as long as we can see
into the future, a strong limitation on foreign demand for our farm
products. Most other countries will meet their needs for more farm
products in part by improving their technology and their agricultural
resources, in part by trade with other parts of the world with resources
much more undeveloped than ours-with Africa, for example-and in
part by reductions in their birth rates. The key to this latter will be
the further extension of communication until almost all families every-
where are brought within the range of talk about health in general and
family size in particular. What is now happening to birth rates in Italy
and Quebec will be happening in more and more countries. All this
adds up to a prospect for very little larger sales of our farm products
to other countries after 1975 than before, even though this nation has
more than its share of the good lands of the earth.
What I have said should point to the foolishness of the computa-
tions of world yearly totals of food supply and population, as if the
world's population were feeding out of a common food trough. I re-
gret to say that the Food and Agriculture Organization and the United
Nations are still inclined to do this.
As will be developed later, what will be the composition of the
export farm product-mix will depend in part on public agricultural
policy and programs. For example, if the policy of subsidizing, by
means of quotas and price supports, hand- and mule-labor cotton-
growing in the Old South is continued, cotton exports will decline
because the returns to cotton labor will be so low, even with the price
supports, that this labor will move out of the South at augmenting
rates. Even now, many cotton farms in the Old South are not using
their full quotas. The families have found better employment than
growing cotton. Tobacco will in time have the same experience. But
in a free world market, the mechanized cotton growing of other parts
of the South and West can probably compete with that of any other
part of the world.
The decade after 1975 will, in any case, show further disappearance
of low-income farming. What will be left of it after the year 2000 will
be only that of older farmers and their wives with simple wants who


---Economics-1956-0-23.txt---
still prefer a self-contained rural way of living. Their sons and daugh-
ters will, in most cases, have already left for other parts.
The projections of a decline to 3.8 to 4.0 million farms in 1975 is
not to be taken to imply a further decline indefinitely from that date.
At some time not far off, possibly even a little before 1975, the rate of
decline in number of farms is likely to slacken and then level off; and
after that there may be a slow, small increase in number of farms. The
further growth of population and income is going to mean a growing
demand for products of the farm that will require more acres in culti-
vation in addition to higher yields. This can all be provided for by
enlarging the area of existing farms. But some of it will take the form of
developing new units in tracts not now being farmed, or converting
grazing land to cropland in some tracts. The numbers of these may,
however, be offset and more by further enlargement of family farms in
present tracts. On balance, it would seem that a small increase in num-
ber of farms may set in before the year 2000.
It should be obvious that nothing in the foregoing indicates a
disappearance of the family farm in the United States. What will
disappear in a large way eventually will be the less than family-size
farms. Part of this will come before 1975. There will still be left the
part-time and residential farms, perhaps as many as now, but they
will be of considerably different descriptions, and will generally sup-
port levels of living that are pretty comparable with those of family-
size farms in the same areas, counting in their off-farm incomes. The
largest decline will be in the Class VI and V commercial farms. Those
left will be mostly older farmers content with or preferring a simple
rural life.
III. Welfare Aspects
We next need to consider what the foregoing means for the welfare
of the people of the nation as a whole and then of the agricultural
sector of it.
First of all is whether what was once a great agricultural nation
should be concerned over having agriculture presently engage only 6
per cent of its labor force, use only 12 per cent of its tangible assets
used in production, and turn out only 4 per cent of its gross national
product.
There are many, even a considerable fraction of those in the world
who consider themselves economists, who hold that there is something
special about agriculture that makes its prosperity and well-being
vital to the nation. One group of these are economists who hold more
or less to the belief that "depressions are farm led and farm fed," or
at least that farm income and/or farm prices have a more potent effect


---Economics-1956-0-24.txt---
on the general economy than movements in either labor or business
earnings. Another group are political scientists who hold that the in-
dependent family farm is a nation's bulwark of democracy, a position re-
stated recently by A. Whitney Griswold in his Farming and Democ-
racy (1948). It may be remembered that Thomas Jefferson went
farther and said that farmers "are the chosen people of God-whose
breasts He made his peculiar deposit for substantial and genuine
virtue" (quoted from Griswold). The political circumstance which is
of most significance in this country is that the thinly populated domi-
nantly agricultural states like Vermont and Nevada have as many
votes in the Senate as New York and California.
The political aspects of our subject, however, are reserved for the
end. The central welfare question on the economic side is how agricul-
ture fares in the distribution of the nation's income. How early in the
nation's history political agitation in these terms began, and the course
it has followed, would be tedious to trace. Suffice here to say that it
was already pretty fully blossomed in the Equity Movement in the
very first years of this century. If your library has a book called The
Third Power by J. A. Everett, you will find clearly stated in it the
doctrine that the farmers are feeding the rest of us at an unfairly low
price, and that the only recourse for them is to organize themselves
into a "Third Power" and battle with Labor and with Business. The
first Secretary of Agriculture Wallace and his economists resumed
this line of talk in the price break of 1920-21. His chief economist
Henry Taylor called it the "new agricultural economics" whose object
was to obtain for the farmers their "fair share of the national income."
The measures presented to Congress in the 1920's had this objective.
This particularly describes the two McNary-Haugen Bills passed by
Congress and vetoed by President Coolidge. The name in those years
for the fair prices that would give farmers their fair share was "fair
exchange value." The Agricultural Marketing Act of 1929 ostensibly
had the same objective, but it provided very different procedures for
attaining it, procedures which came sadly to grief from 1929 to 1932.
The Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933 translated "fair exchange
value" into "parity." It too had a fair share for the farmer as its
objective, but this was to be obtained more gradually and mostly as
a result of production adjustments.
Farm prices improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937, and then broke
again with the minor business recession of 1938. The measures adopted
in these years, particularly in 1933-36, were conceived, or at least
evolved largely, within the executive departments of government. From
1938 on, the farm bloc in Congress took over the writing of the agri-
cultural reform legislation, and shifted it to a price support basis. By


---Economics-1956-0-25.txt---
1939, a definite standard of 90 to 904 per cent of parity for the basic
commodities had been established, and in 1942, provision was duly
made for supporting these prices at this level for two years after the
war was declared to be officially ended. As for agricultural legislation
since the war, suffice to say at this point that even though the last Con-
gress did not succumb to strong pressures to re-establish a rigid full
parity standard, still the belief is strong among a good majority of
farmers that agriculture does not receive its proportional share of the
national income, and very many of those so believing stand ready to
have the government take pretty arbitrary measures to help them get
this proportional share.
Income Shares-Secular Changes
These comparisons over time say in effect that over the whole period
since 1910, the decline of agriculture's share of income and of GNP
have closely matched those of population and labor force, but that the
decline in agriculture's share of NNP has been somewhat greater,
probably because of the capital costs involved in the relatively larger
share in productive assets. For the years since 1940, however, agricul-
ture's share of income, GNP and NNP, have declined much less than
of population and labor force, probably partly because of the increase
in share of productive assets. For only the years since 1951, how-
ever, the income and product shares have declined more than those of
labor and the other input factors.
Much the same story is told by Chart III, appearing in the new 1956
Outlook Chartbook of the Department of Agriculture, in which Farm
Income and National Income are plotted as index numbers with the
high incomes of 1947-49 as the base equal to 100. All the way from
1921 to 1949 the two income series run roughly together even though
agriculture's share of the labor force was declining from 27 to around
12 per cent. What this chart really shows is that somehow or other from


---Economics-1956-0-26.txt---
1921 to 1949, agriculture, measured both in physical volume and price,
grew at roughly-very roughly-the same rate as the economy as a
whole. The extent to which it fell behind in the 1930's was made up
in the war years and after. The stagnation of the economy as a whole
in the 1930's had much to do with agriculture's keeping up in these
years. But with the economy now surging forward with great vigor,
and no war or defense demand for our farm products abroad, agricul-
ture cannot possibly keep up with the rest of the economy. That it did
keep up in the period from 1929 to 1949 was in truth due only to ab-
normal circumstances. If it gets too big physically and produces too
much, the prices sag, and values of output decline as they have since
1951. The normal for the years since 1948 should have been a rounding-
off of the advance, not a decrease.
Per Worker
Earnings and income data such as in Table IV and Chart III need
to be expressed on a per-worker basis in order to reveal their full mean-
ing. This is done in Table V. First, a comparison in terms of change


---Economics-1956-0-27.txt---
over time. Returns per farm worker increased, in terms of current
dollars, 5.4 times between 1910 and 1954, 4.0 times between 1940 and
1954, and 7 per cent between 1950 and 1954. In terms of constant whole-
sale dollars of 1910-14, these three ratios would be 2.3, 1.8, and 0.0.
The parallel increases per nonfarm worker in current dollars are 4.2,
2.9 and 24 per cent, and 1.7, 1.3, and 14 per cent in terms of constant
dollars. Someone may object to deflating farm incomes with wholesale


---Economics-1956-0-28.txt---
prices. If an index of prices paid by farmers for family living items is
used instead, the constant dollar farm series will be 2.0, 1.7, and -0.4.5
A main reason for the greater gain in farm than in nonfarm income per
worker is the greater increase in total inputs used per worker in agricul-
ture than outside of it, shown in the last two columns of Table II. This
shows up in an increase in constant wholesale dollars of 2.5 times from
1910 to 1954 in gross farm product per worker in agriculture, compared
with an increase of 2.0 times in the nonfarm sector of the economy.
These determinations of incomes per worker and per farm point to
a great limitation of parity prices as a standard by which to measure
farm prosperity and well-being-they leave out entirely the contribu-
tion to income of increases in output per worker and per farm.
Per Capita
A full comparison of incomes and well-being, however, requires that
farm and nonfarm incomes be put on a per capita basis in terms of
the populations respectively supported by them, and also that any in-
come to the farm households from other than farming be counted in-
such as from work off the farm by any persons living in farm families,
from interest, dividends and rent receipts, from pensions and social
security-and similarly for the nonfarm group. This is done in Table
VI. Such aggregates are not available for the nonfarm sector before
1934. From 1940 to 1954, the farm income per capita multiplied 3.4
times in current dollars, and the nonfarm only 2.7 times. If the farm
people's income is converted to constant purchasing-power farm dol-
lars, and the same is done for nonfarm income using cost-of-living index
numbers, the comparison becomes 1.5 farm and 1.4 nonfarm. It will
be noted that the per capita farm population income has declined each
year but one since the 1951 peak.
In the period from 1934 to 1954, the income from other than farm-
ing has ranoged mostly between a third and fourth of the total income
of the farm population. In contrast, the income of the nonfarm popula-
tion from agricultural sources-rents, mortgage interest, etc.-ranged
between 1 and 2 per cent of its total.
For the whole period from 1910 to 1954, total income of the farm
population has increased 2.4 times in constant purchasing power dol-
lars, and that of the nonfarm population something less than 2.0 times,
as near as it can be judged from the available data.
It is clear from the foregoing that the per capita income of farm
people has been gaining on that of the nonfarm. But figuring more


---Economics-1956-0-29.txt---
importantly in public discussion is the fact that, even since 1950, it
appears to be only slightly more than half the nonfarm. It is highly
important, therefore, to recognize fully that the two series thus con-
structed cannot be compared directly as they are, for the following
reasons:
1. One-tenth of the farm income is nonmoney income-farm-product
food and fuel and use of farm dwelling-valued at the farm. If a com-
parison with nonfarm income is to be made, these items must be
valued on a common basis, and the nonfarm basis will be best in this
case. This would probably increase the farm income by $700 per farm
since 1950, or $150 per capita. The best way to handle this particular
item is to figure what it would cost a city family to buy in the city the
equivalent of what goods and services the farm family gets from and
with the farm, subtract this from total city income, and compare the
residue with the cash income of the farm family. Figured this way,
the $150 wo;uld be increased considerably.
2. The farm family has a larger fraction of nonworking children to
support. More children are born to farm than to urban families, and
large numbers of farm youth migrate to the cities almost at the be-
ginning of their working years. Adjustments for this would bring farm
and nonfarm per capita incomes at least $100 nearer together.


---Economics-1956-0-30.txt---
3. City dwellers have larger property incomes than farm families.
The adjustment for this needs to be at least $100.
4. Almost exactly half of the farms in the United States were in
the three Southern divisions in 1950, where average incomes of the
whole population are well below the national average. The reason that
they are lower is by no means simply that they are more agricultural.
Some of the differences, for example, is due to the one-third lower aver-
age income of Negroes, by no means all employed in agriculture. The
average farm income in the South was a third below the national
average in 1950. By income classes of farms in 1950, 26 per cent in
the South were classed as residential, with sales of farm products of
less than $200, compared with 12 in the North; and 39 per cent as
low-income commercial farms, compared with 22 in the North.
Adjustment for this fourth item cannot very well be estimated
because it is difficult to determine how much of the disparity resulting
from it is agricultural and how much regional. One way of studying
it is to make the adjustments needed for Numbers 1, 2, and 3 state by
state and see how much disparity is left in what states. It seems likely
that there will not be a great deal left in most of the states in the
North and West. The remaining disparity in the national averages
will then prove to be largely a matter of the heavy weighting of agri-
culture in the South. The adjustment for this may well prove to be the
largest of the four. It will be large enough, in fact, so that combined with
the others, the farm and nonfarm per capita incomes will be brought
within a few or several hundred dollars of each other after these adjust-
ments are made in the figures.
One can conclude from the foregoing, therefore, that the greater
gains made by agriculture since 1910, and especially since 1940, have
brought per capita farm incomes within striking distance of their non-
farm counterparts. The how and when will be considered in the next
section. It may well be pointed out here, however, that this operation
will not be a fast one. A new generation of farmers will be needed to
make many of the changes, especially in the low-income areas where
most of the changes are most needed. But of course one thirty-third of
a new generation is born each year. Also it will be a long time if ever
before the two incomes become altogether equal in terms of any money
values that can be computed. The satisfactions of working for one's
self on a farm will continue to offset money income for many born
and reared on farms. Automobiles and roads, modern communication,
television, electricity and refrigeration, modern housing, and the easing
of the burden of heavy physical farm work through mechanization, are
rapidly removing the disadvantages of farm life and adding to its
advantages.


---Economics-1956-0-31.txt---
Cyclical A spects
No one aspect of the agricultural problem has received so much
emphasis in the recent past as the allegedly great disadvantage which
agriculture suffers because, due to the general inelasticity of the de-
mand for farm products, prices of farm products fall so sharply when
either supply increases or demand falls off. Particular importance is
assigned to these effects as they develop at the onset of business and
postwar recessions. It is time that one really take an all-square look at
these relationships in the large, as in Chart IV. This chart, with a base
period 1910-14 as 100, shows the changes in the total income to Labor,
Capital, and Agriculture since then. The Capital in this trichotomy
includes returns to nonfarm enterprise as well as interest, dividends
and rents. It is therefore closely identical with what is loosely referred
to as "Business." Returns to agriculture reached the lowest level in
the 1930's relative to the base, but returns to Capital broke the
sharpest and fell the most. Most business firms were in the red in
these years and business failures mounted to 30,000 a year in 1931 and
1932. Returns to labor fell the least and recovered the most by the onset
of the second world war. Wages were, of course, very low back in the
base years 1910-14 and had doubled coming out of the first world war,
and kept on advancing with rapid increase in output per worker in
the 1920's. There was vast unemployment, particularly in 1932, 1933,
and 1934, but even having one-fourth of the nonfarm working force
idle, so long as the wages of those employed hold up pretty well, does
not lower the total earnings of labor anywhere near the extent they
would be lowered by a break of a half or more in returns to agriculture
and business.
Over the whole period since 1910, only in the 1930's have returns to
business been set back for more than one or two years, and not very
much then. Returns to labor have followed in close parallel with re-
turns to business except that they have gained the most since 1929.
The magnitude of agriculture's recent setback should not be measured
from the exceptional years 1948 and 1951, but rather as down from
an index of around 325-330, which still means fully one-fifth in magni-
tude by 1955. Taking the whole period since 1920, farm products have
been in surplus except in the second world war years and following to
1948, and the Korean War years 1951-52, as a consequence of which
farm incomes have only a little more than doubled in current dollars
since 1929 while returns to labor have multiplied nearly four times
and to business nearly three times.
It is interesting to observe the effects of the foregoing on the sharing
of the national income in prosperity and depression. The percentages


---Economics-1956-0-32.txt---

---Economics-1956-0-33.txt---
following are percentages of the sum of the three incomes, not of total
national income because military and government civilian incomes are
excluded.
To be noted most conspicuously are the following:
1. How much better labor fared, relatively, than business and agri-
culture in the case of extreme depression such as in 1932. This will be
even more the case in the future because of social security and corn-
pensation provisions in company-union contracts.
2. How in the ordinary ups and downs in the economy, capital's
share remains pretty stable, whereas labor's share is a little low when
agriculture's is high, and vice versa.
3. An upward trend for labor and downward for capital and agri-
culture.
We are now in position to consider more carefully the connections
between agricultural prosperity and business cycles, and specifically
the views of those who believe that business depressions are "farm
led and farm fed." Most of you will recall claims that there would have
been a real recession in 1949-50 except for the farm price supports.
Statements like these were made repeatedly by several of the agri-
cultural news commentators in the following years. But with a group
such as is in this room, a brief and simple statement on this subject
will suffice and will be very familiar to most of you. The falling off of
demand which is the first event in the sequence that makes up a
business cycle is almost always a decline in the demand for industrial
products, particularly those of heavy industry. This is followed by
factory unemployment and a decline in the demand for consuimer
goods, including the raw materials of food and clothing. This is likely
to be reflected in a decline in prices of farm products before very long,
especially if the recession persists and grows, because of the inelasticity
of the demand for these products. Quite commonly farmn product prices
weaken rather early in a recession, and they may weaken a good deal
in two or three years of recession. Farmers and farm households in
turn reduce their purchases of farm equipment, automobiles, and
consumer durables. Even though farm and farm family expenditures
are now only 8 per cent of the national total, certain industries feel
keenly the loss of farm demand in such a situation. But the effect on


---Economics-1956-0-34.txt---
total sales of all products is small. It is the decline at the same
time in purchases of nonfarm producer goods for new investment that
does the most damage, next the decline in home building and sales of
house furnishings, then in the sales of automobiles and consumer
durables, and then in travel and recreation.
More important than any loss of sales to farmers in such a situation
is, in Professor Alvin Hansen's judgment, the effect of the decline in
farm product prices on the general price level. In fact, Professor
Hansen goes so far as to say that the break in farm product prices as
surpluses developed in 1948 was the largest single factor in checking
the world-wide postwar inflation still going strong.6
What develops out of such thinking as the foregoing is the general
conception that breaks in farm prices do not cause business recessions,
and for similar reasons, upward surges in farm prices do not cause
business recoveries, but that farm price movements and related events
or developments within the farm economy may condition more or less
the depth and duration of a business recession and likewise the course
of recovery from it. At the same time, the effect that some development
in agriculture, such as a year of adverse weather, may have on the
course of a business cycle depends considerably on the character and
state of the particular cycle at the time. To illustrate, no, doubt it was
the termination of demand for military goods that started the recession
in 1918-19. But surpluses of export farm products in 1920 played a
large part in the severe break in farm and other prices that came in
1920. But Chart IV shows that business returns were very little
affected by the short break in farm and other prices in 1920. Again,
possibly the curbing of production controls by a Supreme Court de-
cision in 1936, or possibly nothing more than a reaction to this plus
better weather, stepped up agricultural output by 1937-38 to more
than 10 per cent above its 1935 level, with farm prices falling off even
more by 1938. The peak in industrial output was in 1937, with a break
of a fifth in the year following. It is clear that something other than
agriculture precipitated this recession, but agriculture's performance
and rewards in 1937-38 both contributed to and were affected by it.
It should also be evident that the decline in aggregate farm income in
the year 1955 is not yet having any depressing effect on business in
the aggregate.
The foregoing statements are, of course, all aggregates or averages
for the nation. Some parts of the country may be much more affected
by agricultural setbacks than this average, and others considerably
less. To take the extreme type of case, a small city in the midst of


---Economics-1956-0-35.txt---
farming territory will suffer a severe loss in business if farm prices
fall off a fifth. The farm families may have no money at all with which
to buy durable consumer goods and farm machinery. A city with
manufacture of farm machinery as its major industry may be equally
hard hit. But the steel manufacturing industry of Pittsburgh will suffer
only that fraction of its total output that is used in farm machinery,
trucks, and automobiles not bought by farmers because of their loss
of income. In 1955, such loss has been much more than offset by ex-
pansion in other lines.
IV. Problems, Policies and Programs
By now, we should have laid a sufficient foundation for considering
what needs to be done about the nation's agriculture. This will be
undertaken under three heads: first, the emergency phase-this nation
really has got itself into a jam so far as its agriculture is concerned and
must take some vigorous emergency actions; second, the short-run
phase, a ten-year program designed to get agriculture into balance with
the rest of the nation's economy and the world; and finally, the longer-
run phase-a program designed to keep it in this balance. Of course
these are not steps or stages following each other. They need to be
integrated and reconciled with each other from the start.
Again, even in this section, the treatment will be nonpolitical.
Of course the overwhelming reason that the 86.5 per cent of the
people of this country who do not live on farms should want to help
those who do is that the people who live on farms are part of this
country and should live as well and happily as the rest of us. Our
analysis has demonstrated that, considered as one group, they are not
doing this, even after the publicity released statistics are needfully
supplemented. MIoreover, the income to agriculture has declined about
one fifth per farm and per farm worker since 1951 while nonfarm in-
come is continuing its strong advance.
But another powerful reason that the 86.5 per cent of the nonfarm
folks should be concerned is that they and the 13.5 per cent of farm
folks are each importantly dependent on the other. The nature of this
interdependence needs to be stated more definitely than anywhere irn
this paper so far. First of all, this interdependence is primarily not a
short-run one associated with the ups and downs of business cycles.
The interdependence so far as business cycles are concerned is mainly
one-way-of agriculture upon the rest of the economy to keep fully
going so that the demand for farm products will not fall off sharply.
The short-run interdependence of agriculture and the rest of the econ-
omy is centered upon war and defense. Agriculture must be prepared
to increase its output rapidly, particularly in these days of world wars


---Economics-1956-0-36.txt---
when allies too; must be fed and clothed. If it is thus prepared, however,
its production potential easily becomes a peacetime surplus, or remains
one when the war is over.
H-owever, it is in the longer-run interrelationships of agriculture and
the rest of the economy that the "mutualness" is most outstanding. It
is clear from other statements in this address, and I am sure, from
Mrs. Wickens' paper in the Economic Growth II session this morning,
that in spite of the great progress in the arts of agriculture that agri-
cultural leaders boast, prices of farm products in 1910 were relatively
high in historical terms, aiid in 1950 even as compared with 1910-a
1950 index of 258 on the 1910 base as compared with 236 for the gen-
eral price level. It may be argued that land is a scarce and more or less
fixed factor of production and that it is bound to rise in value as the
man-land ratio rises, and prices of farm products along with it.
Surely urban land values rise as a city grows, and why not farm land
as the urban economy expands? But it is clear from analysis in Section
II that agricultural technology can advance at a rate that makes farm
land less scarce rather than more scarce. It surely has done so since
1940, and gives promise of doing so for the next twenty years at least.
Surely, however, to feed and help clothe the 82 millions more nonfarm
people of the United States in 1950 than in 1900, and do it very much
better, with almost a half the workers is a tremendous achievement,
and the no-tfarm sector of the economy not only needs to recognize this
fully, but to stand ready to support all well-conceived measures to con-
tinue this progress in the decades ahead.
On the other side is what progress in the sciences and the arts in
the nonfarm sector mean to the farm sector. Matched against the
more and better food and clothing that the farms have contributed to
the cities at only small increases in relative prices are what the cities
lhave contributed to the progress in farming and farm living-auto-
mobiles and motor transport, most of modern power-farming equip-
ment, commercial fertilizers, modern communication, movies, radio
and television, modern home facilities, in so far as they have reached
farm people, and the like. It is true that the basic research for some
of these was done in the U.S Department of Agriculture and the Land
Grant Experiment Stations, but the cities paid their full share of the
cost of this.
In balancing these two contributions, we must bear in mind that,
after all, city folks are spending only a fourth of their incomes for
foods, and more than a half of this one fourth goes to transport,
processing, and middleman services. A gain of a fourth in the arts of
producing food on the farm represents, if all is passed on to consumers,
only a 3 per cent gain in urban living, whereas the same fractional


---Economics-1956-0-37.txt---
gain in what makes up the other three-fourths of their family budgets
would add 18 per cent to it. As for farm families, in general they do
not spend as much as city families on fancy living, but still the non-
foods make up clearly the larger part of their living.
There is, however, an interdependency of agriculture and the rest
of the nation more important than all of the foregoing. This comes in'
wartime. The wars in which our country becomes involved now are
world wars, and in these it has to provide large quantities of food for
the fighting forces and peoples of its allies. Our agriculture must stand
ready to meet these needs. It was able to do this in the last world war
only because of a large backlog of production potential and even sur-
pluses already produced. Then came the immediate postwar years of
relief and rehabilitation of our allies. The United States rendered a
great service to the Free World in 1940-48. But when the rehabilita-
tion is over, there is excess production and there are sharp breaks in
prices. This country cannot maintain an agriculture ready to expand
as needed during the wars and rehabilitations without surpluses at
their end. We can do a better job than we have of getting ready for the
readjustment. But still we cannot let agriculture suffer alone at such
times as now. We must help it get readjusted.
In tlle proposals for the three phases which follow there is nothing
that has not been proposed before, although there is a good bit that has
been proposed but never adopted. Any hope that someone will come
up with a bralnd new scheme that will solve the agricultural problem
is fantastic. What is needed mostly is a properly balanced and inte-
grated combination of lines of action already being followed. In this
balancing, however, somie very large changes in emphasis are needed.
The Emergency Phase
The jam into which this nation has got its agriculture is simply that
the combination of price supports and production control as it has
been set up and operating has given us a larger and larger output
instead of reducing output to a level in line with the prices set. Or it
may have reduced the output of a particular basic crop, only to
increase greatly the output of substitute nonbasic products. In short,
production control has very largely broken down and either the stocks
of the basic products have reached almost unmanageable proportions
or the supplies of the substitute products have increased till their prices
are already somewhat low. Unless drastic measures are taken the
stocks will become still larger and larger and the prices of substitute
farm products will sink lower and lower. Very few farmers are in
desperate straits yet because of the price declines. Farm earnings
were high in 1951 to 1953, not to mention 1946 to 1948 earlier, and


---Economics-1956-0-38.txt---
most farm families can withstand a couple of bad years as well as, or
better than, city families can. It is rather the threat of several bad
years that really creates the emergency, especially for several hundred
thousand with critically heavy debt loads.
This kind of impasse was due before long anyway. The experience
of production under wartime and postwar incentives has only brought
it to a head sooner. No stronger inducement to expand production can
be conceived than to say to a farmer who has just marketed a big crop
at a guaranteed rigid price that we will pay you this same rigid price
for another big crop like this one. If a limit is put upon his acreage, he
simply steps up his yield per acre by choosing his best acres, using
more fertilizer, and by other measures that have become pretty well
known as a result of wartime efforts to increase output. The remark-
able increases in cotton yields in the last two years are only in part
due to favorable weather. Adding marketing to acreage quotas as- the
next step is only halfway effective in keeping down yields. And the
acreage taken out of cotton may go into corn; out of wheat, into
grain sorghum; etc. Livestock output in 1955 is 20 per cent above that
of 1947-49; crop output only 5 per cent.
The set of related actions needing to be taken to meet this emer-
gency situation in the next year or two is as follows:
1. Let prices for the basic products, and designated nonbasics, with
possibly a few exceptions, be determined in the marketplace, except
as these prices can be supported by government buying and distribu-
tion. This distribution to be expanded importantly: (a) Through
schools-milk and other foods of livestock origin especially; (b) To
unemployed and low-income families generally-these same foods,
through some certificate or allotment plan; (c) For famine relief
abroad, and to finance development programs in backward countries;
and (d) For stockpiling in the case of any products in which stocks
are low.
2. Make compensatory payments to producers to make up the differ-
ence between sales receipts and what the receipts would have been at
the modernized-parity flexible prices provided for in present legislation.
WVith products now on a quota basis, the compensatory payments can be
limited to these quotas. Compensatory payments should apply to the
products now under price supports and probably a few others.
3. Step up commercial exports. With market prices in the country
at the levels that will prevail under Numbers 1 and 2, our farm
products will be more exportable than now, and selling efforts com-
bined with this should be more effective than now.
4. Reduce present surplus stocks cautiously in such a way as not to
reduce domestic prices more than is highly necessary.


---Economics-1956-0-39.txt---
5. On the production side, combine a "soil bank" program with the
present conservation program of the Agricultural Conservation Pro-
gram, at the same time reducing the extent of dependence on acreage
and marketing quotas.
The reason for the emphasis on expanding distribution of foods of
livestock origin is first that these are coming into most serious surplus,
and that at least six times as much land is needed for a given number
of calories of these as for the same number of calories of cereals and
root crops. A 6 per cent surplus of cereals becomes a one per cent
surplus of meat, eggs and dairy products if the cereals are first fed to
livestock.
Perhaps also it needs to be made perfectly clear that this plan is far
from being the same as the Brannan Plan, although it does have in
common with it the compensatory payment feature. A few days after
the Brannan Plan was offered to Congress, what is here outlined was
published in a short press story under the charitable title "The Bran-
nan Plan Can be Salvaged." If it could have been made over as here
suggested, and accepted by Congress, much of the difficulty that has
arisen since would have been avoided.
A program along the foregoing lines will be more costly than the
1955 program has been, but only for the first few years. Over five
years, it should cost very little more.
Since this section was first written, there has been published by the
Conference on Economic Progress a pamphlet under the title "Full
Prosperity for Agriculture," which proposes a return to rigid 90-per
cent parity price support and yet to dispose of enough more food and
other farm products to poor people at home and abroad to balance the
production that will result, all within the next few years. All that needs
to be said about this proposal is that it fails to sense the realities of
the situation both on the production and on the consumption side. The
food and cotton given away must result in additional consumption, not
replace what is moving into consumption through existing marketing
channels, or it will depress prices still further. Guaranteed high prices
for all that farmers are now qualified, equipped, and ready to produce
will step up production faster than in 1940 to 1948. There is complete
disregard in this report of the simple fact that with 90 per cent of
parity assured, the producers who have adopted the new technologies
even no more than part way, and these are producing two-thirds of the
output, will earn large incomes for themselves, and that production
control has largely broken down as a means of controlling their total
output of all farm products.
It is also notable that the income figures in this report make no
allowance for the reduction in number of farms and farm workers since


---Economics-1956-0-40.txt---
1950, nor for the noncomparability of the published U.S.D.A. per
capita farm and nonfarm income statistics. If the chart on the front
cover were to read "Operator's Income" instead of "Operators' In-
come" the slope of it from 1951 to 1955 would be quite different.
The Short-Run (10-year) Phase
The objective over this longer period is to get the agricultural pro-
duction of this country fully into balance with market demand, in
general, and product by product. It is here assumed that it will take
about ten years to get present surplus stocks entirely liquidated and to
extensify agricultural production on enough land so that surpluses will
not be arising currently from year to year. The set of related actions
which need to be taken, properly integrated with the emergency-phase
actions just outlined, is as follows:
1. The set of flexible prices to be used as a basis for compensatory
payments needs to be analyzed more fully and tested in actual appli-
cation. The schedule of adjustment for volume of output should allow
the total return per unit to fall at such a rate that this return times
volume of output will give no larger a net return to the producer for
a large output than for an average one, and preferably somewhat less,
so that there will be something of a penalty for overproducing. This
will mean in effect keeping the total per-unit return from falling as
sharply as it otherwise would in the market place, but not placing
a premium on excess production as rigid price supports do, or even a
schedule of supports mildly declining with volume. This schedule of
course needs to be worked out for each product separately according to
the slope of its particular supply-price curve. At present, one schedule
is applied to all.
2. This compensatory payment program can be extended to addi-
tional products if the need for it becomes clear or arises because of
new developments.
3. A carry-over program needs to be worked out fitted to each
product. This involves determining whether there is a national interest,
commodity by commodity, in larger carry-overs than the private trade
is willing to carry, and how much larger.
4. The program for distribution of food at home through schools
and to low-income families needs to be developed further by testing
otut different procedures; likewise the program for food to aid in the
development of backward countries.
5. The emergency soil bank program will need to be merged with the
Agricultural Conservation Program, and both of them closely inte-
grated with the Farm and Home Development Program of the Agri-
cultural Extension Service and the Soil Conservation Service Program.


---Economics-1956-0-41.txt---
6. Procedures should be developed for paying part of the compensa-
tory payments not in cash, but in the form of aids to land and wood-
land improvement and development, production adjustments, house-
hold improvements, community development and the like.
The Longer-run Phase
What is outlined under this head are the lines of action that will
need to be started as soon as possible and continued indefinitely. This
will involve continuing most of what is outlined under the 10-year
program, but most of it on a standby basis. Thus there should be need
for compensatory payments only in periods of general business depres-
sion, or of excess output of particular crops or livestock products, or
loss of market outlets. In the longer run, the protection furnished agri-
culture against such vicissitudes should be on a level comparable witlh
that furnished small businesses and labor. Unemployment insurance as
at present by no means measures up to the level of what is here pro-
posed for agriculture on a short-run basis, and small businesses have
even less protection.
Most of what is needed in the longer run comes under the head of
stability for agriculture. By stabilizing agriculture we do not mnean
keeping it at a constant level, but rather keeping its growth and
development steady. The major part of the problem by far, of course,
lies outside of agriculture. If there were no wars or business cycles,
there would be left first the production cycles for hogs, beef cattle,
dairying, and the like, the quick ups and downs in poultry farming,
and probably some long sweeps in orchard fruits; second, the over-
expansion that commonly comes with a burst of new technology in a
line of production, and necessary leveling out or contraction following;
third, the rather sudden shifts in demand due to new developments in
the market, such as margarine's substituting for butter, and artificial
fibers' for cotton and wool, or due to loss or gain of foreign markets.
Given continuing wars and business cycles, a good part of the prob-
lem for agriculture is adjusting itself to them, expanding just enough at
the right time and way, and then contracting afterwards.
It should be apparent that the measures outlined above can be
adapted to fit the need for expansion as well as contraction. They
surely can be used to check overexpansion due to new technology, or
bring about adjustments due to loss of markets. In spite of full aware-
ness of the hog-corn cycle for forty years, however, there is evidence
of very little headway in controlling it. Indeed, real success along any
of the lines just listed will call for a more vigorous and determined
effort than has thus far been made, except in the case of wartime ex-
pansions. The first part of such an effort is over-all current analysis


---Economics-1956-0-42.txt---
to see what is ahead and the adjustments needing to be made, for
the nation as a whole and by regions and major types of farm-
ing. Much progress has been made along these lines in the
past ten years. The second part is reducing this to terms of
adjustments needed on representative or modal-type farms in different
sections of each state, so that those working with the farmers in these
sections will know each year in what direction the farming needs to
be heading so that it will fit into the pattern of needed change. This
should be a joint undertaking of the Agricultural Extension Service,
the Soil Conservation districts, the Farmers Home Administration local
offices, the Production Credit and the Farm Loan Associations, the
Farm Foresters, and all tied into the new Farm and Home Develop-
ment Program. The staffing of the Extension Service for its major
role in this effort is highly inadequate. About four times as much ex-
tension effort is now going into technology of production as is going
into planning needed adjustments and implementing the plans. Also,
mnuch more production economics research is needed as a foundation
for this farm planning. Such research is rarely more than one-tenth of
the research of the State Experiment Station. The result is that the
agriculture of most of the nation is well out ahead with technology to
increase yields and make the land more productive, but poorly
equipped with the know-how of harnessing the knowledge and putting it
to such use as will make it contribute as effectively as it might to better
life on the farm and a more orderly serving of the needs of the rest of
the nation.
Finally, and most important of all, a successful handling of the
foregoing two problems will not help much the lower-income third of
our farm families, except in one important particular, namely, that a
steadily advancing economy with reasonably full employment will
provide employment outside of agriculture for nmore of these families
or members of them. Much of what is being said and written on this
problem these days is largely in terms of this solution. What they
propose in effect is to depopulate and abandon these low-income areas
as has been done in the past in much of the Northeast. Yet the bold
truth is that our country has grown to the point where in another
generation it is going to need to have much of these low-income areas
in agriculture and forest-crop production. Moreover, as has been
pointed out earlier, any contribution that the improving of agriculture
in these areas is going to make to surpluses in the next five years is so
small that it can be ignored. The other important factor in this situa-
tion is that the technology of farming the land in much of the low-
income area of the United States has been developed to the point that
all that is needed to have good incomes is to practice this technology on


---Economics-1956-0-43.txt---
farms of sufficient acreage. The cost of bringing very much of this land
into the uses suited to it-dominantly hay and pasture-and of em-
ploying the new technologies is far less than that of reclaiming new
land in the regions of scanty rainfall.
The rational program for these low-income areas is, therefore, to
help the better farm families among them to take over the land being
abandoned by the rest and thus enlarge their farms as needed, and at
the same time to improve their present land plus that acquired, and
to apply the new technologies to it. What is required for the long-
overdue reconstruction of the agriculture of the low-income areas is
primarily a much expanded program of helping the farm families in
these areas to work out plans for developing the resources already
in their farms and for buying additional land if this is needed, and for
obtaining credit on the right terms. It will be mostly intermediate-
term credit or real-estate mortgage credit. In either case, the loans
should be of the budgeted or open-end type so that the loans can be
enlarged year by year in the earlier years and then paid off year by
year later. The necessary private and public agencies to furnish this
credit are already in existence, but the Farm and Home Administration
needs much larger financing than in the recent past. An extra pair of
extension workers is needed in each of the low-income counties to
specialize in the planning work on their low-income farms.
At the same time, the provision of education and medical services
for these areas needs to be much improved. To tax the incomes of our
city population to help provide this better education and health for
areas that are going to provide many of their future citizens is not in the
least unreasonable. Such education and health aids, plus access to
modern communications, will presently help greatly in keeping down
the size of families in these backward areas. The improved education
and communication will facilitate out-migration.
The foregoing is far from a full outline of the needed programs for
agriculture. Credit financing is needed for other than low-income
farmers, particularly for young men ready to start as farm operators-
the "future farmers of America," upon whom depends the quality of
the farming in the next generation. Also our leasing systems need to be
revised so as to make it advantageous for both landlord and tenant to
conserve and even improve the farms which they jointly operate.
V. The Pure Politics of It
It will not take long to present the main political aspects of the
problem we are dealing with. You have already been told how what was
conceived as an adjustment program around 1930 and got embodied
in large measure in the Act that Congress passed in 1933 called the


---Economics-1956-0-44.txt---
Agricultural Adjustment Act, was transformed more and more into
a price-support program from 1938 on.
Many thousands of persons still living heard President Ed O'Neal
of the American Farm Bureau Federation tell on one occasion or
another how he once said to Sam Gompers, the great pioneer labor
leader of this country, "Sam, you have had great success in organizing
labor to work for its own interests. I am starting out to help farmers
as you have helped labor. Haven't you some good advice to give me?"
"I surely have," said Sam. "The American Federation of Labor is
interested in much more than wages for its members. But it does not
stress these other things. We pick out one thing, simple, that every-
body can understand, wages, and fight hard to raise them. You must
(1o the same." O'Neal then asked: "I suppose then that you would say
that higlher prices for the farmer is what the Farm Bureau should fight;
for." "I surely would," said Sam. And that is what the Farm Bureau
dlid in those years.
All of the efforts of the economists in the Administration and outside
in the 1930's to get parity put on an income rather than a price basis
therefore largely failed. The Act of 1936 did set up parity income as a
basis for prorating the supplementary income payments, but these
ended with the War, and the parity of income standard with them. As
has been stated earlier, the same price for a big acreage as an average
one, or for a high yield as for an average one, is the most effective
dev-ice that one can think of to induce farmers to go out and produce
anotler bi, crop, if not by planting more acres, then by using more
fertilizer and the like, so as to make another big killing. Yet rarely in
debates in Congress on price supports is this pointed out, or even by
agricultural economi-sts for that matter. The procedure of adjusting
prices downward for crops above average, so as to support no larger
returns from a big crop than for an average one, has got labeled "flexi-
ble prices" and is being viciously maligned as sliding only in one direc-
tion, downward.
In the immediate political situation, the focus of attention is again
on prices, indeed, on prices more largely than ever before. Sam
Gompers said, "Pick out some one thing, simple, that everybody can
understand, and fight for it." The party in opposition to the one in
the Xhite House is not now usually asking for full parity prices, but
for 90 per cent of them, rigidly, witlh no adjustment for size of the
cro..
The new element in the situation is that this party is also the party
generally believed to be favored by the labor organizations. Who would
have thotught ten years ago that in 1956 he would see the Southern
Demiocrats who want higher prices for cotton and tobacco voting
together with the northern organized labor politicians?


---Economics-1956-0-45.txt---
This strange alliance may be able to get rigid price legislation passed
by both houses of Congress in the coming session. For the President
not to veto it would be a surrender to political expediency, but he will
be under tremendous pressure not to do so by many members of Con-
gress wanting to be re-elected in the agricultural districts.
Of course we cannot really be sure how farm people will vote on
this issue. It depends in good measure on how much they come to
understand the issue in the next ten months. Significant in this connec-
tion is a survey made by Dale Hathaway, then of Michigan State
College, now on the stlaff of the Council of Economic Advisors, in
several counties in that state. First he asked the farmers a series of
questions designed to test their knowledge and understanding of the
price-support program. Then he asked questions designed to ascertain
whether they were for it or against it. Scarcely one-third of them
passed the test, and these were preponderantly opposed to the progran.
The two-thirds who failed the test were preponderantly for it.
No doubt a sizable fraction of the farmers of this country realize
pretty well that our government cannot keep on supporting prices at a
level that brings forth growing surpluses. But many of these will say
if asked, "Labor is grabbing all it can get. Business always has been
able to get pretty much what is wants. If we farmers don't grab th,e
same way, we are being silly."
In this confused situation, there is a fair chance that rigid 90 per
cent price supports will be voted on in either 1956 or 1957. The U.S.
Department of Agriculture which has the task of administering such
an Act will be in a worse spot than the present Department of Agri-
culture is now. It will be dramatic injustice if it is not a Democratic
administration that has to take on this task. Such a course of events
will simply mean that bad as things seem now, they will have to get
worse before the rank and file of the people of our nation sense the
situation well enough to take the necessary action. The party in power
at the time they sense it will lose a good deal of standing with the
general public in the ensuing five or ten years.
As for the final outcome, we need have small fear. But as a nation
we will be better off and less distraught in the next five years if suclh
a program of action as outlined in Section IV can be set forth upon
even as early as in the coming Congress.
It should be evident by thi1s time that the education in the public
affairs of agricultuire that is needed in order to obtain constructive
action without too long delay must not be limited to farm people. The
other 86.5 per cent-before long 90 per cent or more-need an under-
standing of these affairs to. They will at times need to comne to the
rescue of agriculture. This coming Congress and election may be stuch
a time.


---Economics-1957-0-03.txt---
I
It is well known that the original name for what is now generally
called "economics" was "political economy." Most of the treatises
written by the classical economists were books which they entitled
Political Economy. At its first annual meeting in 1886, the American
Economic Association adopted a four-point "platform," the first two
and the last paragraphs of which read:'
1. We regard the state as an agency whose positive assistance is one
of the indispensable conditions of human progress.
2. We believe that political economy as a science is still at an early
stage of its development. While we appreciate the work of former
economists, we look not so much to speculation as to the historical
and statistical study of actual conditions of economic life for the sat-
isfactory accomplishment of that development.
4. In the study of industrial and commercial policy we take no partisan
attitude. We believe in a progressive development of economic con-
ditions, which must be met by a corresponding development of
legislative policy.
And it also is noteworthy that the first publication of the American
Economic Association was Henry C. Adams' essay on The Relation of
the State to Industrial Action2-to my way of thinking still one of the
soundest treatments of the subject.


---Economics-1957-0-04.txt---
There was strong opposition among economists to the original plat-
form of the American Economic Association, despite its hedging on the
most controversial issue of that day, the tariff. This opposition came
principally from the supporters of unadulterated laissez faire who oc-
cupied the chairs of political economy in the largest universities. In
1887, the Association substituted for its platform the brief statement
that its purpose was "the encouragement of economic research, espe-
cially the historical and statistical study of actual conditions." All of
the dissenters, however, did not join the American Economic Associa-
tion until, after a few years, it expressed complete neutrality on eco-
nomic views and methods-a position it has consistently held ever since.
While neutral collectively, it is to the credit of economists that as
individual scholars they have never ceased to be interested in questions
of public policy. Few economists have held the view, which Charles A.
Beard described as the dominant position in American thought around
the turn of the century, and in accordance with which "government was
looked upon as the badge of original sin, not to be mentioned in polite
society." Economists of all schools of thought have often interested
themselves in questions of public policy. Many of the major advances
in economic theory have resulted almost directly from attempts to find
solutions for practical public policy questions. This can be said of
classical economics as well as of Keynesian and neoclassical economics,
no less than of institutional economics. More economists today spend
part of their active careers in government service than ever before. It
is becoming commonplace that economists are in and out of government
service several times during their lives and quite a number are working
simultaneously for the government and in academic teaching or in re-
search positions. Economists in the past have made significant contri-
butions to the solution of practical problems of public policy and are
doing so today.
But it is also true that economists have not received the recognition
in the United States in the realm of public policy which they enjoy in
other free countries. There has also developed much doubt whether
economics should concern itself with problems of public policy. The
clearest evidence of this is the change in the name of the social science
of which we are students. What was once "political economy" became
"economics" after the first world war, with but few exceptions.
While economists think, talk, and write about practical problems,
their participation and influence is quite limited and it is doubtful
whether it is increasing. Thousands of economists are employed in
government. A former president of the American Economic Association
is a distinguished U. S. Senator. A few other members of the Congress
hold membership in the Association. The Council of Economic Advisers


---Economics-1957-0-05.txt---
is constituted of economists. Other economists are bureau chiefs and a
somewhat larger number have held such positions. There are also a
few members of the Association who hold elective or, more often,
responsible appointive positions in state and local governments. Thou-
sands of economists are civil service employees of the national, state,
and local governments. Relatively few of these, however, are in major
administrative positions and still fewer in decision-making spots. Most
economists in government service are engaged in research studies, pre-
paring reports and memoranda intended for the use of the decision-
makers or the information of the public. They see the light of day only
if superiors so decide and then usually with the authorship anonymous,
at least as to most of the contributors. Many economists engaged in
research work in the government are bitterly disappointed because they
do not see what influence their studies have in practical affairs. Their
research studies are valuable sources of information for academic
students, but how much they influence policy decisions is debatable and
doubtful. Beyond question, governmental research in economics and
other social science fields is worth more than it costs, but its influence
is seldom decisive.
Much lower in influence exerted, I believe, must be rated the pro-
nouncements some academic economists make from time to time on
issues of public policy. These often are lofty statements, as from Olym-
pus, addressed to what is assumed to be a waitingAmerica anxious to hear
the words of economic wisdom on the practical issues of the day. Such pro-
nouncements may have some influence. Politicians and manipulators of
public opinion delight to cite as oracles known people who agree with
them. But how much the noncommitted public is influenced is doubtful.
As I see it, the influence of economists on public affairs is principally
that of scholars and teachers generally. This is the influence they exert
upon their students and listeners and those who read what they have
written. As John Maynard Keynes noted, the practical men of today
often repeat what some professor or scribbler long since dead put into
their heads.
This indirect influence obviously depends upon how well our students
and readers grasp what we teach and the readiness with which they
apply what they have learned to the practical public policy questions
of the day. It is on this score that I have the most serious doubts about
the contributions economists are making in the public policy field.
My reasons for doubts are that not much of what economists say and
write seems to "stick with" students and readers. A large percentage of
all college students today have some exposure to economics, particu-
larly in the introductory or principles course. Most students thus ex-
posed learn enough to pass this course. A smaller number, but still a


---Economics-1957-0-06.txt---
quite gratifying minority, make economics their major field of study
and quite a few (although, perhaps, not enough to supply the to-be-
anticipated demand for teachers of economics) go on with graduate
work. But how much economics is learned "for keeps" from college
courses is uncertain. Still more doubtful is whether college study of
economics stimulates an abiding interest in the subject and gives the
students the ability to think through economic problems.
As a former government official concerned with the settlement of
labor disputes and since then as a privately selected labor arbitrator, I
have been impressed by the fact that arguments based on economic
principles are but seldom advanced by either party. Terms like "mar-
ginal utility," "labor mobility," "propensity to consume" and the like
just do not occur in the presentation of actual labor cases. Yet the in-
dividuals presenting the arguments and some of the principals are often
former students of economics-not uncommonly of not many years ago.
Similar failure to indicate that anything learned in courses in eco-
nomics has "stuck" is all too evident in debates in legislative halls and
on the political hustings, many of the participants in which, again, are
former college students of economics. Some "eggheads" in public life
have made fairly extensive use of economic principles, but have had
little appeal to the public. Far more effective has been a repetition of
platitudes about the economy, most of which have their origin with the
public relations propagandists of business and other economic groups.
Economists frankly serving business, as increasing numbers are doing,
apparently have been more successful in commanding an audience. But
much of what many business economists, and the smaller number of
labor economists, are saying cannot be regarded as original, amounting
to little more than giving an aura of scholarship to what is essentially
propaganda. By and large, business economics has been more influential
than general economics. Business economists have become important
advisers to great businesses, and some, as well as a few general econo-
mists, serve with distinction on boards of directors, and occasionally an
economist becomes a business manager. Their influence on public affairs,
however, also is quite limited.
II
Believing as I do that the original concept of economics, expressed in
the old term "political economy" was sound, I inquire why economists
have so little influence in public affairs. Among these reasons, I believe
is the more recent attitude of looking upon government as belonging
within the domain of the political scientist, and only on the periphery
of economics.
This seems to me to greatly understate the importance of govern-


---Economics-1957-0-07.txt---
ment. Government and business or government's role in the economy
has in the last quarter century become an important course subject in
nearly all major universities. Almost without exception, however, text-
books written on this subject take a narrower view of the relations be-
tween government and business than the facts warrant. Some texts are
pretty much treatises on the attempts to preserve competition through
governmental action; others deal, more broadly, with all types of gov-
ernmental regulation of private business. Some picture the economy as
existing independently of government, which is reduced to an outside
institution interfering with business in the interests of consumers or the
general public. Government interference also is pictured as having been
well nigh absent in the early history of our nation. And government
regulation is discussed as still restricted mainly to public utilities and the
fields of communication and transportation.
Studies sponsored by the Economic History Association in the last
decade have established that this is a completely false account histo-
rically.3 There never was a time when laissez faire prevailed in the
United States. In the early days of the Republic there was rather more
than less regulation of business than today. This was mainly local and
state, rather than national regulation, but it was very extensive. Regu-
lation has existed in the United States "from time immemorial," and
substantially all businesses then existing were regulated. The Constitu-
tion was adopted not to give us a weaker but a stronger government.
Not one line in that great instrument of freedom even remotely suggests
a policy of laissez faire.
The American creed is not that of a government which is an oppressor
but Lincoln's "a government of the people, by the people, and for the
people." While wanting as little restriction as possible for the individual,
Americans have always turned to government to help them when in
economic difficulties. They have followed the principle, also expressed
by Lincoln: "Government should do for a people what they cannot do
themselves or that which they cannot do so well for themselves in their
individual capacities."4
If all that government does is labeled "regulation," then government's
role in the economy can be described as that of the regulator. To me it

---Economics-1957-0-08.txt---
seems preferable to use terms more accurately descriptive of the several
things that government actually does in the economy. Confining "regu-
lation" to direct government interference with private decision-making,
government's activities in the economy go far beyond regulation.
To begin with, government is the rule maker and the ulmpire in the
American system of free enterprise. Property, contract, patents, bank-
ruptcy-in fact, all existing economic institutions-are defined by law.
They represent bundles of rights and duties which may be modified and
even terminated by constitutional processes. All basic economic institu-
tions have undergone great changes in the course of American history.
Property in human beings, at the time of the Constitution second in
value only to land, has been abolished and the uses of many other types
of property have been restricted in numerous respects. On the other
hand, good will and other market expectations, almost unknown at the
time of the Constitution, are now protected as property and collectively
are of greater value than older, tangible forms of property. Changes in
basic institutions must conform with constitutional limitations, but
this has not prevented extensive changes. Such changes are still oc-
curring and in all probability will continue to occur, as may be dictated
by the needs and wisdom of the time.
Also most inadequately appreciated by economists has been the direct
and indirect financial aid extended by government to many businesses
in the United States throughout American history. Classical economics
condemned "extraordinary encouragements" as well as "extraordinary
restraints," but both have always existed in this country-and on a
large scale. In recent years there has been a great outcry about
government aids to agriculture. Historically, however, aids to other
lines of business have been greater and may still be greater in the ag-
gregate. The lands granted by Congress for the construction of the
transcontinental railroads exceeded in area that of the entire State of
Texas. Large aids by government, principally the state and local govern-
ments, were extended also for the construction of railroads in the older
sections of the country-and earlier, of canals and turnpikes. Direct aids
to shippingr and ship building, airlines and aviation, mining and fisheries
are more recent but also extensive. A large part of the capital for the
development of new and risky industries has been supplied by govern-
ment and never more extensively than in the present age. Whenever any
major line of business has financial difficulties, it has turned to govern-
ment for aid and, quite commonly, has received aid. Indirect aids,
taking the form of protective tariffs, subsidies, loans, tax allowances,
reduced mail rates, and similar privileges, have been no less important.
Free enterprise, as we have known it, has always included a large
amount of governmental aid to private business.


---Economics-1957-0-09.txt---
Government is the purchaser of a large part of the products of private
industry and the supplier of many services vital to the economy. As
Solomon Fabricant in his studies for the National Bureau has estab-
lished, almost 10 per cent of all products of industry in recent years
have been purchased by government, and a much higher percentage
during the second world war.5
This is the age of the service state, in which government supplies
many important services for the mass enjoyment of the people. Of
these, defense is by far the most imnportant. Education, highways,
public welfare, and social security are very large service activities, as
well as many others. Government as a producer is to some extent a
competitor, but much more it is a stimulant to private business, The
automobile, to cite but a single illustration, is credited with being in-
directly the source of something like one-fifth of all employment today.
But how large would be the automobile and related industries without
the great public expenditures for the improved highways and the
rapidly expanding outlays for parking facilities? A long list of businesses
experiencing competition from government has been publicized by the
Hoover Commission, but by far the most numerous instances it lists
are those of government production of goods and services for its own use,
not products produced for sale in the markets. Government as a pur-
chaser, producer, and competitor is a field thus far left almost entirely
by economists to politicians and propagandists, but which clearly
merits much more attention from the point of view of its economic
effects.
Government regulation of business has been less neglected and there
is little need for stressing the importance of this aspect of political
economy. Some regulation has existed from earliest times, but like every-
thing else, regulation has changed with changing conditions. We no
longer regulate chimney sweeps as Congress provided for in 1819, but
we now regulate the beauticians and the barbers, the electricians and
the plumbers, and, in some respects, all businesses.
More than in any other aspect of the government's role in the
economy, economists long have been interested in its function as the
preserver of competition. To the classical economists, competition was
an all-sufficient regulator, once governmental encouragement of
monopoly was ended. That view is not completely dead, but our anti-
trust and fair-trade-practices laws more and more have become regu-
latory legislation. While there are some doubts, particularly among
business economists, about the wisdom of the underlying policies, it
seems certain that competition and monopoly and government's re-


---Economics-1957-0-10.txt---
sponsibilities in relation thereto, will continue to receive-as they
should-a great deal of attention in public policy.
For some decades economists have devoted much attention to the
government's responsibilities in relation to business stability and full
employment, inflation and depression. Related are the government's
control of the currency and its influence upon the volume of credit and
the general level of the economy. More recent, but widespread, is in-
terest in the factors promoting or retarding economic growth, which are
greatly influenced by what government does. Economists have always
appreciated the significance of government expenditures, taxes, and
debts, and more so since the great depression and Keynesian economics.
The relation of war to the economy has become increasingly significant
in an age of great wars and ever-increasing preparation for future wars.
These are only some of the impacts of government on the economy
and reasons why economics must concern itself with public affairs.
John Maurice Clark, nearly thirty years ago, said in The Social Control
of Busi-zess: "Control is an integral part of business, without which it
would not be business at all. The one implies the other, and the two
have grown together." Since then the interdependence of government and
business certainly has increased. For an understanding of the economy,
we must also understand government and appreciate the interrelation
between government and business.
Government, however, is not all-powerful, and in a free society is
certainly not the end objective of economic activity. In a democracy,
government is only the largest and most inclusive of many associations
of major importance. While it is the only organization which legally
may use force to secure compliance with its decrees, it must operate es-
sentially by consent. Ours is a volitional society in which the central
problem is that of getting individuals to put forth their best efforts with
a minimum of compulsion.
The end objective is individual and family welfare, much more than
national strength, although the former promotes the latter. In the
words of the late Msgr. John A. Ryan: "Industry exists for man, not
man for industry"; and so also does government. It is the citizens, the
human beings who constitute our society, who are central in our system
of free enterprise and both the economy and the government exist to
promote their welfare.
While our society is basically individualistic, it is also associational.
One of the most characteristic differences between totalitarian and
democratic governments lies in their respective attitudes toward volun-
tary associations among their citizens. Every totalitarian government
ever known, whether of the right or the left, has either suppressed or
brought under its complete control all associations within its borders.


---Economics-1957-0-11.txt---
Democracy, on the other hand, has encouraged free voluntary associa-
tions in the economic sphere, as well as in all other aspects of life.
Dictators regard free voluntary associations as a challenge to their
authority, while democracies regard them as instrumentalities to better
promote and safeguard individual welfare, and thereby strengthen the
entire society.
The American society from the outset has been one in which volun-
tary associations have played a large role. De Tocqueville, in his reveal-
ing observations on the United States in Jackson's day,6 noted that
Americans, with all their individualism, showed a remarkable capacity
to associate with each other in their economic endeavors. Today, there
are more associations in the United States than in any other land, and
much more powerful organizations. We have nearly 500,000 business
corporations and more than 50,000 labor unions, plus many thousands
of trade associations, employers' associations, chambers of commerce,
cooperatives, farmers' associations, and other similar economic organi-
zations. Peter F. Drucker has characterized the America of today as
being "enterprise directed," and holds that enterprise "is not the crea-
ture of the State" but "has its own law and rationale in its function."7
The fact that corporations differ so greatly in size and importance
makes it difficult to grasp the significance of their remarkable growth.
More than 90 per cent of the 500,000 corporations in this country are
businesses differing from those conducted by individual entrepreneurs
and partners only in the limited liability enjoyed by their owners and
the life in perpetuity accorded them by law. But a thousand or so large
corporations have very different and greater impacts on our society than
the much more numerous individual entrepreneurs, partnerships, and
small corporations. Not only do these large corporations transact
directly half or more of all business in the United States and employ
one-third of all labor in industrial employments, but they have many
thousands of stockholders, suppliers, dealers, and distributors.
The present-day great corporation, moreover, is much more tllan
merely a business organization. Through their public relations programs
and other publicity media, corporations profoundly affect public opinion
and in doing so also influence the outcome of political contests. In their
dealings with business organizations outside the United States and to
some extent indirectly with foreign governments, American corporations
play a large role in international affairs. Particularly abroad but also in

---Economics-1957-0-12.txt---
isolated areas in this country, corporations provide such services as
housing, medical care, recreation, and education, which are merely in-
cidental to their business activities, but often require a great deal of
time from their executives and their boards of directors. Greatly on
the credit side is what has been called "the public service revolution,"
manifested in the statements of many corporation executives emphasiz-
ing that service to all interested parties is an objective of American
business, ranking ahead of the quest for ever larger profits.
On a former occasion I took the position,8 that contrary to the fears of
many economists and of large groups in the general public, American
trade unions do not have nearly as great assets, influence, and power
as have our large corporations. I still hold this view, but recognize that
unions, too, profoundly affect the American way of life and in respects
other than those narrowly considered economic. In its broader implica-
tions, the labor movement is a manifestation of the rise in the social
order of the element in our population which was "born on the wrong
side of the tracks" or whose ancestors were latecomers in this country.
The advance of this group into the middle class appears to be one of the
causes of the phenomenon, which Sumner H. Slichter and others have
noted, of the growing moderation in the American views on public issues.
Many others of the numerous present-day associations also have
great importance. What has been said about corporations and labor
unions must suffice to illustrate both the significance of the associational
element in our system of free enterprise and the desirability of a broader
approach to many public policy questions than is customarily taken by
theoretical economists.
Pointing in the same direction is "the managerial revolution." This is
the divorce of control from ownership in the large corporation, which
has all but become complete. In the large corporation, the functions
usually still called those of the enterpreneur are now performed by pro-
fessional managers. Management itself is a group, rather than an in-
dividual. Legally managers are employees and generally have but slight
stock-ownership but they effectively run the corporation and at top
levels they are pretty much self-perpetuating. Management has become
an independent factor in production and often is the decisive ele-ment
in the economic success of the corporation.9
The record of management, like that of the large corporations, has
been one of great economic accomplishments. The United States has
by far the largest group of professional managers, both in numbers and

---Economics-1957-0-13.txt---
proportionately to all industrial employees. Other technically trained
personnel are also in excess demand, but managerial talent is most neces-
sary of all and most difficult to develop. Both management and technol-
ogy have been suggested to be basic factors in the economy on a par with
the traditional land, labor, and capital. While not completely neglected,
they have been assigned far too little importance by economists in
explaining our productive accomplishments and possibilities and in
considerations of economic growth and development on international
levels.
III
John Williams in his presidential address in 195110 raised the question
whether the thinking of economists leads and directs or merely follows
changes in the environment. He concluded that most economic literature
is a rationalization after the event. Pursuing his thought, it seerfts to
me that at present, economists are doing but little leading in the domain
of public policy. Further they have taken into account only very in-
adequately the many basic changes in the economy which have been
occurring so rapidly in recent decades.
Twenty years ago an answer satisfying to many economists was given
in Keynes' General Theory to the most pressing public policy question
of the day, that of how to get out of the depression. With the changes
in the environment since then, new questions have arisen and Keynesian
economics seems less of a satisfying answer to all basic questions, al-
though it is still very influential. Neoclassical economics probably has
more followers than earlier, but gives few answers to current public
policy questions. Institutional economics has regained some popularity
after years of neglect and ridicule. But, to me, institutional economics
seems more of a method of approach to public policy questions than an
over-all economic theory.
While a majority will differ, it is my thought that the approach of the
institutional economists has much to commend it. On another occasion,
I described this approach as "a practical problems approach," with
emphasis upon finding answers to the many new economic problems of
the day." John Williams-who, I suspect, would object to any identi-
fication with the institutional economists-expressed my thought in the
statement that "economic theorizing . . . [is] pointless unless it is aimed
at what to do," and further that the "pretension to universality . . . is
the inescapable bane on theorizing."'2 I do not imply that others than
institutional economists have not concerned themselves with practical

---Economics-1957-0-14.txt---
problems. Present-day theorists do express themselves on practical pub-
lic policy issues and advise the policy makers. Not only, however, are
many of them somewhat apologetic in doing so, but greatly prefer to
deal with universal truths which lend themselves to model building and
mathematical reasoning.
Back of this attitude is not merely the quest for universality, but an
overpowering desire to be scientific. In common with many other social
scientists, economists as a group long for the exactitude of the natural
sciences. The nearest approach to such precision seems to many to lie
in the reduction of economic problems to mathematical equations and
then in the application of the proven laws of mathematics to their
solution. Justice Holmes, the great dissenter, once said: "The future
belongs to the man of statistics and the master of economics."'3 But
Holmes could not anticipate the present vogue among economists for
mathematics, which has produced a situation in which many, perhaps a
majority, of the members of the Association, like myself, cannot even
read a large percentage of the articles published in the Review and other
economic journals. A difficult specialized language has the advantages of
appearing very learned and may afford some protection against witch-
hunters, but it loses listeners and readers. I do not want to be under-
stood as suggesting that articles with a good deal of mathematics in
them should not be published in economic journals, but only that I would
like to see more articles that I can read. A fundamental difficulty with the
mathematical approach to economics is the frequent impossibility of
taking account in the equations of all factors, particularly changing fac-
tors. Just as there is danger of superficiality in institutional economics,
so there is danger of unreality in mathematical economics. Econometrics
and mathematical oconomics have such value and hoped-for promise
that they merit the position they have attained, in most major universi-
ties, of inclusion in the program of instruction for graduate students.
But they fall far short of giving economics the precision of the natural
sciences. Nor is there any other approach that offers greater hope for
ab!.olute precision.
While not decrying the econometricians or other economnists who are
trying to make economics an exact science, it seems to me very desirable
that other economists should continue to pursue other methods in their
attempts to gain a better understanding of the economy and in seeking
correct answers to the practical problems of economic life. Man is more
complex than material things and does not lend himself to the same sort
of experimentation as do guinea pigs. In general controlled experiments
are not possible in economics; accurate observation and reasoning from
observed facts is as far as we can go in the discovery of truth. It is com-


---Economics-1957-0-15.txt---
forting that many of the basic truths in the natural sciences were dis-
covered by similar nonexact methods, long before the present accurate
methods of measurement were known.
Although exact scientific measurements are impossible for the solu-
tion of many economic problems, a scientific attitude is a sine qua non.
By that term I refer, first and foremost, to complete honesty and im-
partiality. Economists, like all others who merit the high distinction
of being known as scholars and scientists, may never compromise with
truth and must have the courage of their convictions. Falsifying, color-
ing, or twisting the truth is contemptible, whether it be done for com-
pensation, to gain notoriety, or to curry favor. A scientific attitude de-
mands an inquiring mind, a strong urge to know, and tireless industry
to explore every aspect of the problem. It calls for the rechecking of
results and a willingness to change opinions when the evidence war-
rants. It appears most favorably when accompanied by personal
modesty and a high degree of fairness, manifested alike toward pioneers
and predecessors, contemporaries and those holding variant views. It
calls for thorough knowledge of what has been done before and for keep-
ing abreast with current research. These are difficult standards to meet,
but such an attitude is necessary and attainable, although the exactitude
of the natural sciences is presently impossible and may never be realized.
Much more harmful than the quest for the certainty of the natural
scientists is the attitude that economists should confine themselves to
aspects of practical problems that are strictly within the domain of
economics, defined as including little more than the price mechanism and
equilibrium analysis. Extremists holding this position scoff at the very
idea that anyone but an economist has anything worthwhile to say on
the solution of practical economic problems. Related is the idea that the
only worth-while answers to economic questions are to be found in ap-
plications of general economic theory.
A less extreme variant is the view that economists should deal only
with the economic aspects of problems but should participate with other
social scientists in interdisciplinary research. This calls for each group
of social scientists tackling a given problem by its own methods and in
its specialized language, followed by an interchange of views between
all of the researchers. Through such a procedure a truer answer is ex-
pected than can be gotten from a one-discipline approach by economists
or by any other group of social scientists. This position has something
like official blessing in the action of the foundations in especially en-
couraging interdisciplinary research. No great discoveries have thus far
come from such interdisciplinary research, which may mean only that
it is too early to correctly appraise the results. Certain it is, that this is
costly research, best suited to wealthy foundations, large universities,


---Economics-1957-0-16.txt---
or physically nearby institutions. Its greatest value may lie in acquaint-
ing scholars from different academic fields with the language and ap-
proaches of the other disciplines. That is not without importance, but
is unsuited to public agencies needing prompt answers to practical ques-
tions and to economists in struggling institutions who have no estab-
lished reputations.
The idea underlying interdisciplinary research is sound. Questions of
public policy do not fall into the tight rubrics of academic disciplines.
For the answers to practical questions more than one and often many
academic disciplines need to be brought into the picture. There are no
hard and fast lines separating economics from politics, law, sociology,
psychology, and philosophy. Even technical matters, geographic facts,
and certainly the historical and institutional background need to be
taken into account by the economist seeking answers to practical
problems. Economics is not timeless and placeless and is more than an
exercise in logic or a mathematical problem. All social sciences blend
into each other, as in fact do all elements of our culture. Economics has
to do with the aspect of man concerned with the satisfaction of his
material wants. But it is ever the whole man who acts in economic
matters. To lose sight of this basic fact is but to grope for economic
truth in a way akin to the study of the elephant by the blind men of the
fable, not one of whom could get an even approximately correct picture
of the great animal.
How to get a broad over-all view which also has depth is the $64
question (or to use a more up-to-date analogy, the correct answer to the
final question which gives ownership to everything in the show). In my
article on institutional economics I took the position that the practical
economist needs to know his way about in all the social sciences, and that
in addition he should be broadly cultured, with some bent toward the
technical, in a mechanical age. I now recognize that this is a well-nigh
impossible prescription for economists in this complex age. Few, if any,
economists can be super Leonardo da Vincis, or Benjamin Franklins, or
Thomas Jeffersons-not to mention the wisdom of Lincoln.
I certainly do not propose that study of practical economic problems
should be restricted to supermen. Rather, I believe that every educated
person, specifically everybody who regards himself as an economist,
should interest himself in practical economic problems. While some
economists may do better with abstract, over-all problems, the great
majority will be well advised to deal with concrete questions which ap-
pear not to be too large for their capabilities and resources.
What is essential is not a mastery of all disciplines which may have
something to contribute to the solution of economic problems, but an
appreciation that economics does not afford all of the answers. This calls


---Economics-1957-0-17.txt---
for broadly trained, cultured economists, rather than narrow specialists.
It is impossible for anyone to know beforehand the intricacies of all
domains of knowledge which impinge on a given problem. Prior training
can only equip the student with a realization that all aspects of a given
problem need to be studied before a worthwhile answer will emerge. In
the actual study of practical economic problems the researcher, and
still less the administrator and policymaker, cannot stop at the bounds
of what the theorist believes to be economics. He needs to become
acquainted with everything that has bearing on the problem being
studied, whether it be economics or anything else.
Aspects not deemed by most economists to be economics do have
importance for the solution of many economic problems. Man's motiva-
tion in dealing with economic problems is not solely economic. The
economic man is a fiction, but the whole man a reality. To gain economic
ends, men resort to many practices which do not make sense from a
purely economic point of view. Beliefs actually held are scarcely less
important than what people ought to think.
Taking into account noneconomic aspects places a heavy responsi-
bility on the economist who studies questions of public policy. He has
to learn much that is new to him, including what often is an unfamiliar
language. But he generally can get help from specialists in other disci-
plines, provided he appreciates the need for such help and knows from
whom to inquire. It is true also that practical problems seldom involve
all aspects of any academic discipline. To grasp noneconomic aspects no
great advance knowledge of other disciplines is required, only a desire
to understand the total setting and tireless study of the problem in its
entirety, no matter where it may lead.
I would add two other requisites for fruitful study of economic policy
questions. One is a genuine interest in the problem studied and zeal to
bring about improvement and correction of what is wrong. The other is
realization that institutions and conditions can be changed and that
progress and improvement are possible. Without real enthusiasm, no
study ever gets very far. Research which is merely part of the day's
work that has to be done lacks the fire needed to make it significant.
It is also my belief that for significant study of economic problems the
incentive afforded by possible economic gain will but seldom prove ade-
quate, as the returns are almost always small. Likewise, the motive of
merely accurately describing what exists is sufficient only for the ex-
ceptional teacher, as also is that of trying to extol the existing institu-
tions. The most significant work on practical economic problems has
been done by people who have been inspired by a desire to change and
improve what exists.
A final admonition to the would-be researcher and the most impor-


---Economics-1957-0-18.txt---
tant is to actually start and carry through a research project. A uni-
versity colleague who has won fame as a novelist once told me: "Writers
are of two kinds. One kind are those who plan and talk about writing;
the others those who sit down at the typewriter and write." Having
reached an age when most of my career is behind me, I recognize how
little I have accomplished and say to my friends: "Avoid my mistake
of putting off planned research and writing." With age, enthusiasm
wanes, as does energy. Studies which do not get beyond the planning
stage are but seldom worth anything, and unfinished studies rarely can
be completed by anyone else. A scholar will always share knowledge
with others, but the man who has done the research is likely to be the
man best qualified to interpret it and to carry it to completion.
In common with most others who have discussed the subject, it is my
conviction that economists should be encouraged to engage in research.
Similarly, I believe that it is desirable that they should get practical
experience in business and/or government, with the idea of later return-
ing to teaching. I hold these views, in part, because I believe that re-
search and practical experience are broadening and enrich teaching. I
also believe that we need to find solutions for many economic problems
to insure the further and rapid progress we ought to have.
I would direct much of this research to public policy questions. Par-
ticularly valuable, I believe, is field research. It is important for econo-
mists early to realize that not everything worth knowing about eco-
nomics and practical public policy questions is to be found in books, or
can be grasped by thinking about problems in a swivel chair, or arrived
at by solving mathematical equations based on unproven assumptions.
The advice John R. Commons always gave his students: "Do not only
read and think but observe" is as valuable today as it was when I studied
with him as a graduate student. Besides furnishing training in gathering
original information, field research should prove most helpful in the dis-
covery of new truths and in sweeping away unfounded beliefs.
Not everybody has talents which will bring fame in research. But I am
of the opinion that useful economic research can be done by many more
economists than do any research. Many of the practical problems of the
day are narrower than the weighty matters principally discussed in
meetings like this. Ph.D. theses are supposed to be original pieces of
research and quite a few are creditable examples. However, it is tragic
that many of the authors of these theses never complete any similar
studies or publish anything. Subjects for profitable research are all
about us. No practical question is too unimportant to merit study. The
beginner, as well as the economist who gets no foundation or other
financial support, is probably well advised to tackle problems which
seem to him to be quite small. Usually, as small problems are studied


---Economics-1957-0-19.txt---
they grow larger; moreover, answers to small problems as well as to
large ones are needed.
Anyone who engages in research always faces the possibility of failure.
Even if no solutions are found, much may be gained. Study of problems
has its own reward in the inner satisfaction it affords and the broadening
influence it has. The natural scientists have come to regard the experi-
ment that fails, if accurately performed, as but little less valuable than
the one that succeeds. In Henry Van Dyke's delightful little essay
"Alpenrosen and Goat's Milk,"'4 the story is told of the Swiss village
festival in which the highpoint was the climbing of the greased pole.
Youth after youth attempted the feat only to fail. Finally, the hero got
to the top and received great plaudits. But as Van Dyke remarked,
much of the credit belonged to those who preceded him and rubbed the
grease off the pole.
IV
I believe that economics does have great possibilities and a promising
future. To begin with, we will have far more students. More students
will increase our problems, but also will be a great challenge and oppor-
tunity. There are now a million fewer people of college age than prior to-
the second world war, but above a million more students in colleges and
universities. Enrollment figures are once more increasing and, if the
present percentages going to college are maintained, will increase more
than 50 per cent within less than fifteen years. There is every reason,
moreover, to expect that the very pronounced trend toward a large
percentage of young men and women actually going to college will
continue. There are forecasts that within a generation as large a per-
centage of the people of college age will actually attend college as the
present percentage of boys and girls of high school age enrolled in
secondary schools. That percentage is now 88, compared with less
than 15 per cent at the beginning of the century. College enrollments
were less than 5 per cent in 1900; today, close to 30 per cent.
Many will view the expected increase in enrollments with alarm. It
will prove more difficult to staff economics departments adequately
with qualified teachers. There is even now a shortage of qualified faculty
in some schools of business administration and in the economics depart-
ments of some small colleges. The number of graduate students in eco-
nomics, excluding students from abroad, moreover, has been decreasing
rather than increasing. More graduate students, including some who
earn Ph.D. degrees, go into business. There is also some attrition in
economics faculties by reason of the higher salaries in other comparable
occupations. Whether the prospects of an increasing demand and a


---Economics-1957-0-20.txt---
possibly declining supply of teachers of economics will result in increased
salaries or in heavier teaching loads and more teaching by inadequately
prepared assistants can be answered certainly only in the future.
In addition to increased full time enrollments, economists are con-
fronted with increasing demands for their services in adult education.
Through part-time instruction, conferences, and lectures, immense num-
bers of adults are getting some instruction on economic subjects. It is
my view that responsibility for such teaching should not be shunted off
entirely on half-trained, young instructors-although their youth and
energy is a great asset in educational work of this type. Increased col-
lege enrollments, and growing demands in adult education, will add to
the teaching responsibilities of economists.
I make no claims to pedagogical wisdom. While I have been a teacher
for half of my adult life, I confess to some of the disdain which uni-
versity professors display towards the professional educational-methods
people-without real justification, I will add. But my experience as a
university teacher and lecturer and as a civil service employee and an
appointed official has given me some ideas which I hope are worth ex-
pressing, in view of the large educational task which confronts the
economists in the period immediately ahead.
It has been said that the purpose of formal education-certainly of
higher education-is not to give people knowledge but to get them to
think. This is a truism, with which I, of course, agree. But I would add:
"Not only to think , but to read and observe." Students and, still more,
American adults read little that is not required or is not in picture or
capsule form. Even among people doing economic research, it is a com-
mon occurrence that they often display ignorance of what has been done
earlier on the subject. There may be a thrill in rediscovering independ-
ently what could be learned by reading, but it does seem a waste of time.
Without depreciating visual instruction-which has great merit in mass
education-I believe that it is sound counsel to urge upon all teachers
of economics to insist upon wide reading, in the training both of gradu-
ate and undergraduate students. It is through such insistence upon
reading that even when confronted with such large numbers of students
as we are, we may hope to be able to acquaint them with different
points of view and in the process stimulate thinking on the subject. Such
a method also has the advantage of keeping the professor on his toes,
which is essential for effective teaching.
Getting students to observe requires even greater skill on the part of
the instructor. It is a method, however, of enlivening classroom dis-
cussion, particularly if the observations are related to what is presented
in the lectures, text, and readings. For graduate students it is most desir-
able in connection with reports and theses. In many branches of eco-


---Economics-1957-0-21.txt---
nomics, field study seems to me well-nigh indispensable in the training
of graduate students. If it can be guided so that the professor and the
students work together on the same problems, an almost ideal relation-
ship between teachers and students can be created.
These suggestions, I know, add to the work required of teachers of
economics, in "handling" the large numbers of students the near future
will bring. But few other efforts can be so rewarding in personal satis-
factions, influence exerted, and friendships formed.
The increasing demands which teaching is making upon the academic
economists operate to make incidental research more difficult. Even
more they furnish an excuse to many for not attempting any original
studies. On the other hand, far more funds from foundations and other
sources are becoming available for research leaves for studies at home
and abroad. Opportunities for temporary employment in government
have not increased and many conditions continue to make government
service unattractive. Employment by business with the idea of later
returning to teaching offers increasing opportunities, but is subject to
the drawback that it is hard to give up the larger business salaries. All
told, however, opportunities for full-time research are distinctly better
than ever before.
I am of the opinion that academic economists should go on research
leaves when they have opportunity to do so and have a subject in which
they are vitally interested and to the study of which it seems they can
profitably devote a year or so. Generally, both the recipients of the
grants and the institutions giving them a leave, will profit from such
interruptions of academic teaching. But the recipients have a heavy
obligation to complete the studies they undertake, in fairness to the don-
ors and their own institutions, to say nothing about the harm they other-
wise do to their reputations and to the profession.
Besides full-time leaves for research, I strongly believe in the study of
original problems by teachers of economics on a part-time basis and
even without any time allowances-although these are desirable. By
some, such research can profitably be directed toward the theoretical
aspects of economics. More generally, I believe, it can best be devoted
to questions of practical public policy and to studies of the historical,
institutional, and factual background of economic problems. There are
many more problems in this domain with which the part-time researcher
can hope to deal successfully than in the theoretical field.
There are serious difficulties which the would-be researcher must
overcome. An obvious difficulty is that of finding the time for research,
confronted, as are most economists, with overloaded teaching programs.
There is also the problem that there are too few publication outlets for
economic research, particularly on applied practical subjects. A very


---Economics-1957-0-22.txt---
serious handicap is the lack of appreciation in the profession and out-
side of it of the economist whose research does not produce earth-
shaking results. Even knowing where to begin is not simple.
Suggestions which might prove helpful for economic research, par-
ticularly on practical public-policy questions, include these: Public
agencies might well consider "farming out" research on economic prob-
lems to universities in the manner of the natural science agencies, far
more than they are now doing. They also might prepare compendia on
practical research subjects not urgently requiring immediate answers,
with data on sources of information. Mature scholars could do the same
and foundations profitably could aid them financially to make such re-
ports.
The important matter of giving credit for research to the academic
people who do such work is, first and foremost, a matter of recognition
within the profession. Economists, like all other people, appreciate most
the good opinion of their fellows. Yet the economists seem to be
much more given to knocking than to boosting each other. The theorists
scoff at institutionalists and vice versa. Worse is the fact that even men
in the same department generally know little about the research their
colleagues are doing. One small step toward improvement might be
to give all members of the department an opportunity, at least once a
year, to talk to their colleagues about the research in which they are
engaged. In smaller institutions, the traditional general economics
seminar might well serve this purpose; in larger institutions, regular or
special department meetings. The regional economics associations, I
believe, have their greatest value in affording a forum to younger and
less well-known scholars. This is also one of the values and justifications
for the growing number of allied social science associations which sup-
plement the American Economic Association. While their existence has
the tendency to make the programs of the A.E.A. meetings more
theoretical and to give most of the places to the limited number of econ-
omists with reputations for original work in economic theory (most of
whom are connected with a small number of large universities), the allied
association affords opportunities to give recognition to the larger num-
ber of economists who work in applied fields and on practical problems.
Above all, I plead for tolerance among economists for differing points
of view and varying fields of usefulness. Is it too much to expect or at
least to hope that economists will adopt the attitude which prevails in
the older professions? Lawyers, who put on a great show in battling each
other in the court room and on the hustings, always speak of each
other's reputations in terms of praise and will insist that a lawyer should
be selected for every position which even remotely may require some
speaking acquaintance with the law. Doctors seldom will expose errors


---Economics-1957-0-23.txt---
of other members of the profession. Economists, in contrast, often with
sadistic glee devote a large part of their efforts to tearing down the repu-
tations of other economists. This reflects more than the relative new-
ness of economics and the apologetic attitude many economists have
because they are not certain that our discipline is either a science or a
profession. Assuredly, it involves bad manners, which as individuals we
should guard against. A word of approval for work well done is far more
helpful than the most logical criticism, which overlooks human sensi-
bilities.
In the last analysis, research has its own rewards. There are few
satisfactions as great as the sense of accomplishment which a scholar
gets when he completes a well-done task. This is particularly true of
research on public policy questions; for as Robert M. LaFollette, Sr.
said, in an address at the University of Wisconsin, in the year I enrolled
as a freshman, more than 50 years ago: "It is a glorious service, this
service for country. Each one should count it a patriotic duty to build at
least a part of his life into the life of his country, to do his share in the
making of America according to the plan of the fathers."
Concluding this old man's counsel of advice, which makes no pretense
at words of wisdom, I can do no better than to quote President Theodore
Roosevelt's statement exalting the doer of deeds:
It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the
strong man stumbled, or where the doer of deeds could have done them
better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena;
whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives vali-
antly; who errs and comes up short again and again; who knows the
great enthusiasms, the great devotions and spends himself in a worthy
cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumphs of high achieve-
ment; and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring
greatly; so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls
who know neither defeat nor victory.16


---Economics-1958-0-03.txt---
We in the West are proud-and justly proud-of our free enterprise
economic system. Nonetheless, if you look for the kind of rounded
description and explanation of this type of system that the proverbial
man-from-Mars would need in order to understand in broad terms
what it is and how it works, you will not find one. I know of no pub-
lished explanation that does not leave important gaps and does not
badly need to have a number of qualifications attached to it.
Such descriptions and explanations of the free enterprise way of
organizing economic activity as we have are to be found chiefly in
connection with statements of principles of economics in general in-
troductory texts and texts on intermediate theory. These statements
commonly tell only a part of the story of free enterprise and a rather
misleading part at that. The aspects of a free-enterprise economy that
they typically select for consideration can fairly be characterized as
mechanisms, aspects that lend themselves to the techniques of model
analysis. And they slight what may be called the organic aspects of a
private-enterprise economy, particularly those aspects that reflect
changes in legal and economic institutions, and those like the master-
servant relationship that are not easily treated in the terms of an
individualistic ideology. I do not mean to say that most introductory
and intermediate theory texts neglect these organic aspects entirely;
only that consideration of them is often very scanty and is quite com-
monly put in a separate chapter rather than made a part of the ex-
planation of the private enterprise way of organizing economic activity.
But such scantiness and separateness of treatment can be an extremely
serious fault, particularly when one is concerned with the public-policy
implications of a statement of principles of economics.


---Economics-1958-0-04.txt---
For a time I had planned to try this evening to indicate in some
detail the kind of statement we ought to have for our free enterprise
way of organizing economic activity. But even an illustrative formula-
tion would have taken far too long and would have required my making
many points that are commonplaces for all of you along with less
familiar ones. Instead, therefore, I have decided to concentrate on
some of the leading public-policy implications that such a statement
would entail.
I
When we speak of a nation or community as having a free enter-
prise economic system, we imply by the word system that while there
is no general manager managing its economic activities, the people that
make up the nation or community in large measure act as if there were.
An adequate descriptive and explanatory statement for this kind of
economic system would call for taking at least the five following steps:
First, one should specify what general or central management functions
under such an arrangement are performed without a general manager.
Second, one should identify and describe the institutions that perform
these central management functions, for it is human institutions-not
an Unseen Hand-that serve in lieu of a general manager. Third, one
should explain how these institutions work, indicating the part played
by each institution in each function. Fourth, or,e should consider any
deficiencies in the way the institutions perform the functions. And
fifth, one should note the public-policy implications of such deficiencies
and consider what institutional changes have improved or might im-
prove the performance of the functions. This fifth step would, of course,
give us only a part of the answer to the question, What public economic
policies should we adopt? But it is a significant part, because the func-
tions provide something like an objective basis for policy judgments.
Much of what I want to say relates to this part.
But what central management functions do institutions perform in
our economy? In the interests of brevity I will not attempt to enumerate
them systematically. There are four that are our immediate concern;
two others I will take note of presently. The four are: first, determining
how much of each good the economy is to produce; second, determining
who is to do what, and seeing that the work gets done; third, determin-
ing how and where the available nonhuman resources are used; and
fourth, determining the distribution of the economy's product. These
central management functions are all quite familiar. In fact they may
be said to be a primary concern of the principles-of-economics or model-
analysis type of statement of our free-enterprise system.
The list of institutions that participate in the performance of these


---Economics-1958-0-05.txt---
four functions is fairly long, so I will mention only two of them to
which I propose to give particular attention: the profit system and
competition.
Before considering these two institutions let me say a few words
about some shortcomings of the principles-of-economics or model-analy-
sis type of statement of our free enterprise system. For one thing it
largely ignores one of the main central-management functions, that of
establishing the master-servant relationships that make a business
organization possible. I want presently to comment on this function.
Another shortcoming of the model-analysis type of statement is that
it almost inevitably plays down historical changes and intercountry
differences in economic organization. The same "principles of eco-
nomics" are assumed to apply before and after the industrial revolu-
tion; the same "principles" to apply to all free enterprise countries.
A third major shortcoming is that a very inadequate basis is provided
for analyzing deficiencies in the way human institutions perform cen-
tral-management functions.
It is true the model-analysis type of statement of a free-enterprise
system gives full recognition to the imperfections in our economic or-
ganization arising from private monopoly. And at least since Keynes'
General Theory such statements have fully recognized the undesirable
consequences of an inadequate level of aggregate demand. But there
have been other serious deficiencies in the way our institutions have
performed central-management functions. One of the principal amend-
ments needed in the model-analysis type of statement is that the dis-
cussion of the four central-management functions with which it is
primarily concerned should include a more comprehensive and system-
atic treatment of these deficiencies and of any changes in institu-
tional arrangements that have served or might serve to remedy them.
More than a century ago John Stuart Mill in the last chapter of his
Principles incorporated a systematic treatment of the problems he saw
arising from the institutional deficiencies in the British economy of his
day and the measures that had been or could be taken to remedy them.'
We very much need an amended and modernized vision of Mill's treat-
ment, for there are significant differences between that economy and
ours today. Also we have acquired in the meantime a good many signifi-
cant bits of economic knowledge that would be appropriate for bringing
his last chapter down to date either for the British economy or for ours.
Nonetheless no really comprehensive modern formulation along these
lines has been put together. It is true that in the decade or two before

---Economics-1958-0-06.txt---
the great depression a good deal of work was done on this phase of
economic theory. But unfortunately since the early 1930's little atten-
tion has been paid to the subject. Surely it is time economists took it up
again.
I want therefore to indicate what a modernized version of Mill's last
chapter would entail. I propose to do so by noting some of the main
points-in addition to those relating to monopoly and to inadequate
aggregate demand-that it should deal with. These points can conven-
iently be grouped under two heads, those that relate particularly to the
working of the profit system and those that relate primarily to the way
competition works.
Let us take the profit-system points first. The working of the profit
system is inevitably conditioned by the legal rules that govern the con-
duct of business and by the business practices that have developed
under those rules. Satisfactory operation of the profit system assumes
that what is profitable is also good public policy and that what is good
public policy is also profitable. Of course this assumption is true only
to the extent that we have developed legal rules and practices under
those rules that make it true. And it is scarcely conceivable that the
rules and practices that have developed could be so perfect that what is
profitable and what is good public policy would completely coincide.
But to the extent that they do not, there are deficiencies in the way our
economic institutions perform basic central-management functions, de-
ficiencies in the way the profit system works, most of which are not
suggested by the model-analysis type of statement of the free-enter-
prise way of organizing economic activity.
Let me cite a number of illustrations or ways in which our legal sys-
tem and practices within the law have been responsible historically for
significant divergences between what is profitable and what is good
public policy. I will cite them but for the sake of brevity I will not stop
here to consider, case by case, what has been done toward correcting
these defects in our scheme of pecuniary incentives.
1. Petroleum and natural gas resources. As has been pointed out by
various students of these resources, notably Joseph E. Pogue, the ap-
plication of the so-called wild animal theory of property to our subsoil
mineral rights has led to competitive drilling and a consequent waste
both in the excessive number of wells drilled and in the needlessly in-
complete extraction and utilization of the oil and gas.2
2. Short-term leases. As A. C. Pigou has so clearly explained in his
Economics of Welfare, it is nearly impossible to draw a short-term lease

---Economics-1958-0-07.txt---
for a parcel of real estate that will give the lessee the same incentive to
take care of the property that an owner would have.3
3. The individual labor bargain. If what is profitable is to be in
accord with the public interest, no one should ever be able to do any-
thing that imposes any cost on the community beyond the cost he him-
self has to bear. But there have been various circumstances under which
an individual could do something without paying the full cost. It has
frequently been said of such a situation that the individual had to pay
only the money cost, not the human cost. Thus the difficulty with the
kind of bargain likely to be reached between an individual employee
and an individual employer in the absence of protective labor legisla-
tion has often been thought of in terms of this distinction. But "human
cost" is a vague, subjective concept. The costs an employer or other
individual avoids ought to be more definitely identified. They commonly
can be more definitely identified by a form of social accounting pro-
posed by J. M. Clark. As he puts it-and his point is quite independent
of any monopsony element in the bargaining-the cost of living is a
kind of overhead cost to the labororer, but the labor contract makes
wages a direct cost to the employer.4 Indeed the labor contract is a
species of short-term lease. It is similar to a real-property lease in that
it gives the lessee (the employer in this case) an inadequate incentive
to take reasonable care of the worker's health and safety. Further, under
such a short-term lease the employer can be expected to avoid the kind
of responsibility for a worker's maintenance when business is slack and
when the worker is superannuated or technologically unemployed that
he would have to assume if the worker were his property.
4. De facto torts. The distinction between money cost and human
cost has been applied also to various other circumstances under which
an individual could do something without paying the full cost. And in
general, social cost accounting makes possible a more definite identifica-
tion of the costs he has avoided. An important class of such avoided
costs involve what I have elsewhere analyzed as de facto torts, situa-
tions in which an individual inflicts damage on another person or
another person's property or exposes another person's life or limbs to
danger, without that other person's having a reasonably adequate
remedy at law.5 There have been many cases of this sort, among them
cases involving unsafe buildings and building installations, unsanitary

---Economics-1958-0-08.txt---
arrangements and practices, air pollution, stream pollution, soil ero-
sion, spring floods and fall droughts, and uses of real estate in ways
that adversely affect the value of nearby properties.
5. Eminent domain. As Richard T. Ely emphasized, there are under
existing property rights some types of project that, though definitely
in the public interest, it has not been profitable for a private enterprise
to undertake without the aid of a delegated right of eminent domain.6
Projects such as constructing a railroad or a canal or damming up a
stream are cases in point.
6. Corporation management. The financiers and officers of a corpora-
tion have often found ways to make money for themselves that have
had the effect of taking money out of the pockets of the corporation's
stockholders. High finance has been a source of many large fortunes.
Thorstein Veblen was by no means the first economist to give attention
to this peculiarly lucrative form of pecuniary employment, but the
penetrating analysis he gave it surely deserves mention here as we
commemorate the hundreth anniversary of his birth.'
I have cited these six cases of significant divergences between what
is good public policy and what is profitable to suggest that there have
been a great number and a great variety of such divergences quite
apart from any that result either from mere monopoly restrictions of
output and monopsony restrictions of input or from inadequate aggre-
gate demand. It seems to me economists should be actively concerned
both to discover such divergences and to devise remedies for them.
But I do not mean to imply that this task of correcting defects in our
scheme of pecuniary incentives is one that can ever be completed. There
will continue to be many significant divergences between what is profi-
table and what is in the public interest. For one thing people's ideas
about what is in the public interest change with the passage of time.
For another both economic conditions and the law are continually
changing, and with changes in economic conditions and changes in the
law new divergences are bound to develop. Indeed, when one reflects
on all the aspects of the law that condition the profit system, it is clear
it could hardly be otherwise. Anything like perfect coincidence of the
profitable and the common good would require something like perfec-
tion plus perfect up-to-dateness in the law of property; of conditional
sale, lease and other forms of contract; of torts; of debt and collateral
security; and of partnerships and corporations; not to mention the
---Economics-1958-0-09.txt---
special kind of perfection and up-to-dateness that would be needed in
our tax laws.
One reason why such perfection and up-to-dateness are unlikely ever
to be realized deserves special mention here. This reason involves an
aspect of the profit system that by its very nature lies outside the field
of phenomena the ordinary type of economic-model analysis can han-
dle. In general any model for the profit system assumes the profit of a
firm to be defined as the algebraic sum of a list of revenue and cost
items; and throughout the analysis of such a model the list of these
revenue and cost items must necessarily be held constant. Thus im-
plicitly the analysis assumes the firm operates under some set of legal
rules and interpretations of those rules, and takes the rules and inter-
pretations as fixed. But certainly businessmen often give telling support
to proposed legislation they deem good for their business, and they are
continually seeking new favorable legal interpretations-or what comes
to the same thing, new loopholes in the law-not to mention the fact
that getting some special discriminatory favorable consideration from
a public official has all too frequently been regarded as a profitable
expedient. One thing the pursuit of profit means is seeking favorable
changes in the way profit is defined and determined.
II
So much for the policy implications of the role of the profit system
in organizing economic activity. In considering policy implications of
the role of competition we need to note another central-management
function, that of regulating the prices and other terms on which trad-
ing takes place. This function is of course auxiliary to the four we have
so far been largely concerned with, for they will only be performed as
they should be if the economy's scheme of pecuniary rewards and in-
centives is appropriate to induce such performance, and we will only
have a scheme of pecuniary rewards and incentives that is appropriate
in all its details if the regulatory function is properly performed, i.e.,
if the prices and the other trading terms are just right. So far as we
rely on the impersonal operation of institutions for performing this
auxiliary regulatory function we rely primarily on the institution of
competition.
Under the hypothetical conditions of a perfect competitive market
the operation of the regulatory function is quite simple. Buyer compe-
tition pushes prices up, seller competition pushes them down to a uni-
form level that leaves no potential buyer or seller who is willing to trade
at that level unsatisfied. However an actual market adjustment that
approximates this kind of perfection will not necessarily be one that
conforms to sound public policy. The price may represent a cut-throat


---Economics-1958-0-10.txt---
competitive level; indeed in its pertinent empirical sense marginal cost
pricing would mean cut-throat pricing for most businesses most of the
time. Moreover, the market that approximates the perfect model might
be-say-the market for a dangerously infected food or the market for
the services of prostitutes. Still the clearest case for relying primarily
on competition to produce an adjustment that conforms to sound pub-
lic policy is in a market where there are many traders on both sides
and where all terms except the prices are uniform and fixed so that
perfect market conditions are approximated.
Alternatively when price competition and competition on other terms
of trade are combined, the regulatory function may be impaired. In-
deed, as Henry Carter Adams long ago pointed out, in such circum-
stances the tendency may be to lower the plane of competition and
"force the moral sentiment pervading any trade down to the level of
. . . the worst man ... in it." This quotation comes from Adams' essay
entitled "The State in Relation to Industrial Action."8
An extreme difference between the number of buyers and the number
of sellers in a market is a further circumstance that may impair the
regulatory function of competition, for it is likely to mean that the less
numerous traders on the one side of the market are specialists at the
trade, while the very much larger number on the other side are ama-
teurs.
Nonetheless, where the more numerous traders are buyers, even
when sellers are competing in quality of product and in sales effort as
well as in price, provided certain conditions are satisfied, it is possible
that the regulatory function of competition may be reasonably well
performed. Some years ago J. M. Clark proposed the term "workable
competition" for these conditions.9 The two main ones he specified are:
(1) that the demand curve confronting the individual seller shall be
neither too elastic nor too inelastic, and (2) that there shall be just
enough of a tendency for sellers to cut prices in dull times and raise
them when business is brisk-that is, just enough demand elasticity
and just enough price flexibility to assure prices that shall be neither
unreasonably high nor unreasonably low. But presumably Clark had
in mind at least one further condition. I assume he meant a market in
which a limited number of sellers announce their prices and other terms
of sale in advance and in which buyers are moderately well-though
not too promptly-informed regarding seller deviations from list prices.

---Economics-1958-0-11.txt---
The concept of workable competition is undoubtedly a highly signifi-
cant forward step in our understanding of the regulatory function; and
I hope and expect Clark will give us a further significant forward push
tomorrow afternoon. However, let us not forget that the conditions
needed to make a market "workably competitive" are quite special con-
ditions; also that there are serious difficulties in controlling these condi-
tions and in knowing when they are realized; further that there are
various markets to which they do not apply; and finally that these
conditions seem pertinent primarily to the price levels charged by the
firms in an industry, not to the price differentials between the different
specifications of a product or between different delivery points. We are
still a long way from having a realistic, generally applicable concept of
competition that can be depended on for a reasonably adequate per-
formance of the regulatory function.
Nonetheless there continue to be two main ways of viewing this
regulatory function, especially as it applies in the strictly private enter-
prise area, i.e., the area including all private, nonfinancial enterprises
except those classed as public utilities. It will be convenient to call
these two ways the institutional-supplements view and the perfect-
market view.
Anyone who delves into the history of our Association will be im-
pressed by the extent to which it was the institutional-supplements view
that provided the impetus to its establishment. The most active leaders
were young men in their thirties, like Adams, Ely, and J. B. Clark.
Fresh from their studies in Germany, these men believed various gov-
ernment actions were needed to supplement the working of competition
in the performance of the regulatory function. Let me cite the first sen-
tence of the statement of principles they wrote into the Association's
original constitution: "We regard the state as an agency whose posi-
tive assistance is one of the indispensable conditions of economic prog-
ress."'0
The other view of the regulatory function of competition I call the
perfect-market view because it tends to regard the perfect-market model
as the norm which most markets should be made to approximate. On
this view if monopolies are effectively prevented or effectively broken
up, and if undue integration and unfair competitive practices are effec-
tively prohibited, the regulatory function of competition will be ade-
quately performed, so that, except for such efforts to maintain fair


---Economics-1958-0-12.txt---
competition, a policy of laissez faire can and should in general be
followed.
If in 1885 this perfect-market view was somewhat overshadowed by
the view that in various circumstances positive government action is
needed to supplement the regulatory influence of competition, it seems
fair to say that since that date there has been a recurring tendency for
economists to revert to a laissez-faire position. Indeed at the Associa-
tion's fiftieth birthday party this tendency received some attention.
Frank A. Fetter, the toastmaster on that occasion, spoke of laissez
faire as "that most persistent concept ... with more than the proverbial
nine lives of the cat.""1
That was 1935. But the tendency is still with us. Consider, for ex-
ample, the school of thought that Kenneth Boulding, naming it after
Pareto, calls "Paretian welfare economics." In his survey article on this
school Boulding makes clear the thoroughgoingly laissez-faire nature
of its usual economic-policy conclusions. The main ones are "a strong
predisposition in favor of 'perfect markets' "; an insistence on "margi-
nal cost pricing"; and "a general predisposition against" taxes that are
deemed to "distort the . . . structure of economic activity"'2 (in other
words against taxes that serve any regulatory purpose).
Since "Paretian welfare economics" is pure theory, its policy con-
clusions can be pure laissez faire-so pure that they seem pertinent to
a hypothetical model rather than to the real world. But not all Pare-
tians concur. And on the more specific level the negative conception of
public economic policy is less extreme, though it is still negative. Those
who take the perfect-market view of the regulatory function of compe-
tition tend to think of various government actions in regard to private,
nonpublic-utility (nonfinancial) businesses as interferences with our
free enterprise system, or-to use Boulding's phrase-actions that "dis-
tort the . . . structure of economic activity."
On the other hand those who take the more painstaking, institu-
tionalist view of competition and the profit system tend to think of nmost
government actions in this broad area as supplements to competition
designed to make it and the profit system work better. The issue, then,
is between regarding government actions in this broad enterprise areal
as interferences and regarding them as supplementary to the regulatory
function of competition.
But there is more to this issue. The perfect-market view tends to
treat differences in competition, provided it is reasonably fair, merely
as a question of more or less. The institutional-supplements view re-

---Economics-1958-0-13.txt---
gards the detailed nature of the function of competition and of the
supplements to it that may be needed as varying from industry to in-
dustry and market to market. Simply listing the forms that government
action has so far taken and that now command quite general approval
lends strong support to this latter, more painstaking institutionalist
view. Let me mention a few: forecasting crop production; prescribing
minimum quality standards for most meats and for fluid milk; estab-
lishing grades and grade labeling for various commodities; a costly wire
service providing day-to-day market information; requiring elaborate
registration statements from the obligors of most large security issues;
granting patent rights; insuring home mortgages; flexible regulation of
margin requirements for security trading; requiring actuarial reserves
for life insurance companies; requiring open competitive bidding in
floating railroad securities. All these various forms of government ac-
tion are aimed at supplementing the regulatory effects of competition
so as to improve the operation of our economy.
In general such supplements mean that the government introduces
modifications in the conditions under which business managerial de-
cisions are made. The important point is that these modifications, if
they are properly devised, do not involve the substitution of govern-
ment decisions for the day-to-day decisions by the managements of in-
dividual businesses. We already have a great number and variety of
supplements in this sense and as time goes on both the number and the
variety seem likely to increase. Indeed economists should make it their
business to discover and to propose new possible supplements.
Government can, by such modifications in the conditions under
which business decisions are made in a particular industry, exert a
powerful influence toward decisions that more closely conform to the
public interest. Theoretically at least, there is another possible kind of
government action toward an industry through which such an influence
could be exerted, another kind of action that would not involve substi-
tuting government decisions for the detailed day-in-day-out managerial
decisions of business. This other possible form of action is planning the
constitution or structure of an industry. So far we have had no real
experience in this country with such planning. The closest approaches
are plans for the railroad industry that did not materialize. But per-
haps one should also mention federal policy in disposing of surplus war
plants after tlhe second world war, private plans that have received
judicial sanction in trust dissolutions and private plans to merge that
have been disapproved. However, we have not really tried industry
structure planlning. But surely there should be instances where it would
be possible to improve the functioning of competition through planned
changes in an industry's structure. I think we are likely one of these


---Economics-1958-0-14.txt---
days to experiment with this kind of government action.
To my mind the fact that so little attention has been paid to this
possibility is convincing evidence that the model-analysis oversimplifi-
cations of the profit system and competition and the persistent pro-
pensity for economic theorizing to push in a laissez-faire direction have
tended to act as serious restraints on the freedom of economic inquiry
and to discourage explorations by economists of ways-structural plan-
ning, for example-to improve the functioning of our free enterprise
system. At all events current explorations of this sort are distinctly
timid. I venture to hope that as we become more precise in our state-
ment of the way competition and other institutions perform the central-
management functions, our explorations of how to improve our private
enterprise system will grow bolder.
Such greater precision should mean regarding many of the things
government does in the economic sphere as supplements to the working
of our free enterprise system, not as interferences with it. But there are
clearly ways in which government action can interfere. Let me mention
one. Freedom of enterprise means the management of a business has a
wide discretion regarding the transactions it enters into so that in gen-
eral for any individual transaction no other party's consent is needed
except the consent of the other party to the transaction. But any law
that leaves an unduly wide discretion to judicial interpretation, how-
ever laudable it may be substantively, interferes with freedom of en-
terprise during the period when it is being interpreted. Having to get a
determination of the meaning of such a statute by a law suit can be
quite as serious a restriction on enterprise freedom as it would be to
have to get approval for a budget item from the economy's central
manager if we had one. Every new law requires some interpretations;
the vaguer or newer its wording the more it requires. The recently en-
acted internal revenue act is an example. We have put a needlessly
large number of such free-enterprise-restricting provisions on the stat-
ute books during the past 25 years.
The two views of competition I have distinguished often differ on
the adequacy of competition as a regulator that will induce the firms in
a given industry to produce products of a safficiently high quality and
prevent them from charging an unduly high level of prices. Hence they
often suggest different economic policies. But let me conclude my dis-
cussion of competition by commenting briefly on a matter of policy on
which these two views largely agree. They agree in condemning dis-
criminations in prices and in other terms of trade that serve no public
purpose. And many of those who take the perfect-market view would
agree with those who take the institutional-supplements view that com-
petition is inadequate as a regulator when it comes to price differentials


---Economics-1958-0-15.txt---
and other discriminatory practices; for competition frequently means
discrimination. In fact a competitor that gets ahead in an industry may
do so in substantial part by developing business connections, i.e., ar-
rangements that give him preferential treatment in terms of financing,
in terms of purchase, in access to market information, in the award of
private contracts, even preferential treatment in the administration of
a public office. The fact that various businessmen who have become
public officials seem to have found it difficult to understand our con-
flict-of-interest laws bears witness to the prevalence of such discrimina-
tory arrangements in the business world. They are not only prevalent;
many businessmen seem to think freedom to make such arrangements
is an essential feature of our free-enterprise system.
If there are significant restrictions on unjustifiable discrimination in
prices and other terms of trade today they must be attributed largely
to various supplements to the regulatory influence of competition. Both
public opinion and business ethics impose such restrictions. And there
are some legal restraints too, e.g., in the Robinson-Patman Act. But
there should be quite general agreement among economists that the
right to develop business connections that give a firm preferential treat-
ment is not a necessary part of our free enterprise system and that
there is need to eliminate the many unjustifiable discriminatory prac-
tices still extant in the business world. The problem here is partly one
of what means can be used to eliminate such practices but importantly
also it is one of how to distinguish these practices from differentials in
prices and other terms of trade that are in accord with the public in-
terest. I hope the problem of how to make this distinction will be given
far more intensive study during the next several years than it has yet
received.
III
Although our free enterprise system operates without any central
management, production is in large part carried on in organizations
each of which specializes in particular phases of the productive process
and each of which is under the direction of a management. Hence it
has sometimes been said that while our economy has no general man-
ager it has a large number of functional foremen. Because there are
many organizations engaged in the productive process-many business
enterprises each of which is a social organization, not merely a single
individual-our economy involves the central-management function of
providing for the functional foremen-determining who shall act as
foremen, clothing them with authority to act as foremen, and imposing
on others who participate in the work of any business enterprise the
duty to obey its management.


---Economics-1958-0-16.txt---
Basically provision for the economy's functional foremen is made
by two institutions, property and the wage system. The form of prop-
erty involved is the business proprietorship or net worth. From the
point of view of the accountant net worth is merely a residual claim to
the assets of a business, what is left of the assets after the claims of
creditors are satisfied. But the title to a business is much more than this.
In the case of a sole proprietorship it conveys to the proprietor the
right to manage the business and the right to the profits derived from it.
In the case of an incorporated enterprise these rights are conveyed to
the corporation as a legal person, which means in effect that the man-
agement is vested in the corporation's directors and officers.
The title to a business clothes the economy's functional foremen with
managerial authority. At the same time the wage system imposes on its
employees the obligation of stubservience. As John R. Commons in-
sisted, the wage bargain is more than a mere bargaining transaction
between equals before the law, it is also what he called a "managerial
transaction." It makes "One person . . . a legal superior who has the
legal right to issue commands. The other . . . a legal inferior who, while
the relation lasts, is bound by the legal duty of obedience."13
Thus the institution of the business proprietorship and the wage
system together provide for the establishment and operation of business
enterprises that are not mere one-man affairs but social organizations,
and also provide for the expansion of such organizations. And in this
kind of a social organization the management not only issues orders to
the employees but also in any large enterprise it prescribes and ad-
ministers rules governing their conduct as employees and inflicts penal-
ties for disobedience, among others the penalty of dismissal. It need
scarcely be said that making and administering shop rules and inflict-
ing penalties involve quasigovernmental powers; the setting up a busi-
ness organization means in fact establishing a kind of industrial gov-
ernment.
When we in the West speak of our free way of life we commonly
have in mind both our free enterprise system and our bill of personal
rights and liberties. Sometimes I fear it has been assumed that the two
types of freedom involved are one and the same. They do have a good
deal in common, it is true, but they are not the same, and particularly
when we are considering the way business proprietorship and the wage
system provide for our economy's functional foremen, it is urgent to
distinguish them.
Let us briefly recall the main items that have so far attained a recog-
nized place in our bill of personal rights and liberties. These include:
the right to vote, eligibility to hold public office; the right to a fair


---Economics-1958-0-17.txt---
trial; and (though we are less proud of this one) the right to discrimi-
nate arbitrarily in choosing one's friends. They include also: freedom
of one's person and freedom to move about at will; freedom of one's
property from search, seizure and the infliction of damages and (in the
case of real estate) from unauthorized entry; freedom of assembly and
association; freedom of calling and, for each household, freedom in the
management of its budget; freedom of thought and its expression (in-
cluding religious freedom); freedom from retroactive legislation. Of
course these freedoms are not absolute; they are subject to various
limitations. Thus freedom of one's person does not exclude imprison-
ment as a penalty for a crime.
Some of these items in our bill of rights are necessary to our private
enterprise system. Freedom of consumer's choice and freedom of call-
ing are essential features of the institutional framework we depend on
for organizing economic activity. Further, workers must have freedom
to move about, and in some degree freedom of their persons and free-
dom of thought to make our economic system operate as it does today.
The overlap of the legal foundations of our economic organization
and those of personal freedom consists partly of these common bill-of-
rights items. But there is another part of the overlap too. This consists
of a number of rights and freedoms for the business enterprise itself
that are included in the legal foundations of our economic system and
that are more or less precise counterparts of the items in the bill of
personal rights. Thus if our economy is to operate as it does today, a
business corporation, likewise an unincorporated enterprise, must have
the right to a fair trial and must in some sense have freedom of its
property from seizure, search and the infliction of damages and (in
the case of real estate) freedom from unauthorized entry. Also a busi-
ness enterprise must have substantial freedom from retroactive legisla-
tion and something like a counterpart of freedom of calling and house-
hold budgetary freedom-a substantial degree of freedom of contract
and freedom in making up its budget. But freedom of contract should
not mean the right to discriminate arbitrarily. Further no business
enterprise qua business enterprise needs the right to vote or to hold
office, or freedom of its person, or freedom of its thought, so long as
owner-operators and employees in working for the enterprise have
somewhat of both. And, except for a small special class of enterprises
that need freedom to print, broadcast or exhibit, no business enterprise
as such needs freedom of expression.
There is a substantial overlap between our bill of personal rights and
liberties and our free enterprise system. Nonetheless the two are sepa-
rate and distinct. The reason for distinguishing them is that there have
been serious problems in reconciling the two. Historically such prob-


---Economics-1958-0-18.txt---
lems arose in the process of developing legal rights that would put a
creditor in as strong a position as possible to enforce a debt contract
without jeopardizing the personal freedom of the debtor. The impor-
tance of reasonable protection for the creditor in our present economy
is obvious. But obviously too it has been necessary to rule out the possi-
bility of enslavement or imprisonment for debt as a means of debt
collection.
Serious problems of reconciling the institutional arrangements for
economic organization with those that give personal freedom have
arisen too in another connection. When employees bargain with em-
ployers as individuals the law has the effect of clothing the employers
with autocratic quasigovernmental powers-the powers of prescribing
and administering shop rules and imposing penalties. Partly in order
to get rid of the restrictions on personal freedom that such autocratic
powers entail and to give employees a voice in shop rules and provide
something like due process in their administration there has been a de-
cided shift of public policy toward favoring collective bargaining. But
no doubt this shift is also to an important extent, like most other phases
of labor legislation, a recognition that competition cannot be relied
upon to perform the regulatory function in the labor market.
I do not wish to minimize the problems connected with employer-
employee bargaining. But for brevity I will pass them over with a
single comment. So far as the interests of employees are concerned the
case for substituting collective for individual bargaining is a strong
one; but the substitution may leave the interests of an important
group of third parties, viz. the consumers, quite inadequately protected.
For brevity too I will pass over the question, How fully have we
eliminated the restrictions on personal freedom that were introduced
into our social order in the first place through the development of the
employer-employee relationship? My present concern is not with what
has been accomplished here. Rather it is with the general approach we
have taken to deal with the conflict between our bill of rights and the
rights of business management which are part of the legal foundation
of our free-enterprise system. The approach has been to resolve that
conflict by a significant curtailment of the rights of management, a
significant restriction of the right to hire and fire. And the objective has
been to promote personal freedom. Even if the accomplishment falls
somewhat short of the intent, I think we should regard what has been
done as illustrating a broad basic general policy proposition, viz.: When
a conflict arises between our free enterprise system and the objective
of developing and strengthening our bill of personal rights and liber-
ties, it is the free enterprise system that should yield.


---Economics-1958-0-19.txt---
The reason for this is clear. The rights and freedoms of business
enterprises that are part of the legal foundation of our economic organii-
zation and that we have called counterparts because of their resem-
blance to items in our bill of personal rights, differ sharply in one re-
spect from the bill-of-rights items. And that difference is a fundamental
one. We prize the items in our bill of rights for their own sakes. Our
personal freedom is an end in itself. But we prize the business-counter-
part rights and freedoms-what we call freedom of enterprise-because
they are part of the legal foundations of our economic organization.
They are means to an end, because the organization itself is a means to
an end-the end of getting the things done that we as individual human
beings want done.
We rightly prize our economic organization because it has proven to
be extraordinarily productive and progressive and has enabled us to
achieve an extraordinarily high level of living. But we do not prize it as
an end in itself. We should therefore be open-minded about possible
further restrictions of business freedoms and other changes in it-both
changes that will supplement and improve the way economic institu-
tions perform central-management functions and enhance our econo-
my's productiveness and progressiveness and changes that will enlarge
and strengthen our personal freedoms. Twenty-five and more years ago
economists were devoting a good deal of attention to the kind of wel-
fare economics that is concerned with such changes in our free enter-
prise system. It is high time to resume the active investigation of this
kind of welfare economics.


---Economics-1959-0-03.txt---
Economists are indebted to Thorstein Veblen for his emphasis on
the role that institutional factors play in economic thinking. To Veblen,
what economists believed and had to say about the operation of eco-
nomic forces in a price system was essentially a logical formulation
of the preconceptions and observations of those whose daily lives
were subjected to the impact of the system. As he expressed it, "The
higher theoretical knowledge, that body of tenets which rises to the
dignity of a philosophical or scientific system . . . is a complex of habits
of thought which reflect the habits of life embodied in the institutional
structure of society . . ." [31, p. 44]. More specifically, about classical
theory Veblen said: "In the days of the early classical writers eco-
nomics had a vital interest for the layman of the time, because it for-
mulated the commonisense metaphysics of the time in its application
to a department of human life" [31, p. 69].
Wesley Clair Mitchell, close friend and admirer of Veblen, expressed
a similar thought throughout his brilliant lectures on types of economic
theory at Columbia University. Economic doctrines, he told his stu-
dents, represent intellectual responses to ever-changing economic prob-
lems. The problems economists think about and the way they think
about them are determined by the institutional matrix in which they
find themselves. Around this idea he built his course in the development
of economic thought from Adam Smith to John R. Commons.
As a background for a similar interpretation of current economic
thikliing, I shall lean heavily upon what Mitchell had to say about what
Adam Smith taught and why he taught it.
Smith was primarily a political economist, not an economic logician.
It is true that he formulated principles governing the determination of


---Economics-1959-0-04.txt---
prices, the economic allocation of resources, the distribution of income,
the geographic division of labor, and economic progress, and in doing
so he laid the basis for late-nineteenth-century neoclassicism. But he
formulated these principles as one profoundly concerned with public
policy, and it is the policy implications of his principles and the
persuasive manner in which he expounded them that make The Wealth
of Nations one of the great books of all time. On public-policy issues
he spoke with the knowledge of a keen observer of contemporary
affairs, the wisdom of a profound philosopher, and the convictions of a
great moralist. He was concerned not so much with the discovery
of new truths as with the application of sound principles in determin-
ing the proper limits of governmental activity, and it was essentially a
negative policy that he advocated. That negative policy was a reac-
tion both against the teachings of the mercantilists and against the
web of administrative controls in which the economic activity of the
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries had been enmeshed. But when he
expounded his ideas the strands of this web had already been greatly
weakened by economic forces set loose by the rise of capitalism, the
accelerated pace of technological innovation, and the development of
the factory system.
I. The Classic Norm: Economic Individualism
Smith, in defending economic individualism as a means of promoting
the national welfare, conceived of the national income as the aggregate
of individual incomes. As he put it, "the annual revenue of every so-
ciety is always precisely equal to the exchangeable value of the whole
annual produce of its industry, or rather is precisely the same thing
with that exchangeable value" [26, p. 423]. The way to maximize it
is to let individuals maximize their own income in their own way. He
recognized, of course, that no individual is primarily concerned with
promoting the general welfare. Of this he said,
By preferrino the support of domestic to that of foreign industry, [every
individual] intends only his own security; and by directing that industry
in such a manner as its produce may be of the greatest value, he intends
only his own gain, and he is in this, as in many other cases, led by an
invisible hand to promote an end which was no part of his intention
[26, p. 423].
Promotion of the general welfare is a proper goal of statesmen, and
they can achieve it by the abolition of all needless restrictions on eco-
nomic activity. As Smith put it,
All systems either of preference or of restraint, therefore, being thus
completely taken away, the obvious and simple system of natural liberty
establishes itself of its own accord. Every man, as long as he does not


---Economics-1959-0-05.txt---
violate the laws of justice, is left perfectly free to pursue his own interest
his own way, and to bring both his industry and capital into competition
with those of any other man, or order of men [26, p. 651].1
These are doctrines with which, of course, we are all familiar. What
we sometimes overlook is that Smith in his exposition of economnic
liberalism was the spokesman of an age that needed little persuasion to
accept his doctrines. Smith's was an age in which the individual had
acquired an institutional significance characteristic of no previous age
in English history. In the entire culture of the period the individual had
acquired a new importance as innovator, initiator, and doer. Man had
assumed responsibility for his own destiny and hence for society's
destiny, particularly in economic affairs. The ideas Smith so brilliantly
reduced to a systematic philosophy were not novel to the rapidly in-
creasing and increasingly important enterpreneurial class of his time.
Although Smith never engaged in business, during his sojourn in Glas-
gow he associated intimately and continuously with businessmen. Glas-
gow at that time was a thriving commercial and manufacturing center
whose industrial progress would have been gratifying to any modern
Chamber of Commerce. Nor were the businessmen, who were largely re-
sponsible for its vigorous activity, indifferent to policy questions. The
more alert and public-spirited townsmen conducted a weekly discus-
sion club expressly designed to inquire into the nature and principles
of trade. Smith as a member made weekly contacts over a number of
years with an informed and articulate group of businessmen who had
assumed responsibility for the conduct of economic affairs. Smith's in-
terest in economic problems may well have stemmed from these asso-
ciations, and his ideas about these problems no doubt were shaped
in part by them.
No society is static. As E. Lipson, the economic historian, has said:
"Every social system contains within itself the seeds of its own decay;
it is always dissolving and reforming in an infinite sequence" [18,
p. 15]. While Smith was writing The Wealth of Nations, mercantilism,
the folly of which Smith so lucidly and logically exposed, was already
dissolving, and individualistic capitalism, the next sequence in the
inexorable march of economic change, had already passed its adoles-
cence. The restraints on the movement of labor, the restrictive rules
of apprenticeship, the prohibition of exports, and the tariff on im-
ports-the whole scheme of mercantilist controls was already obsolete
and was rapidly passing into the limbo of outworn notions. Smith
gave it a push, but economic forces propelled it as no philosopher,
however potent his pen, could have done.

---Economics-1959-0-06.txt---
The corporate structure of mercantilist society, with its village
courts, its merchant and craft guilds, and its monopolistic overseas
trading companies, had already largely dissolved under the disintegrat-
ing influence of widespread and persistent individualism. Men insisted
on their freedom to engage in enterprise unshackled by arbitrary con-
trols. The rise of the spirit of individual initiative in economic affairs-
a spirit einbodied in the entrepreneur or "undertaker" as Smith called
him-was, of course, a gradual process that had its beginning in the
late Middle Ages, but it had already achieved considerable maturity by
1776. Individual entrepreneurship was the characteristic institution
around which economic activity revolved, by which economic resources
were allocated and production was organized, and through which the
several factors of production received their rewards.
Lipson described this process with an eloquence rare in economic
writings and a fidelity to the facts of English industrial development
not always achieved by those who interpret broad movements in his-
tory. He showed that in industry, agriculture, and trade the "spirited
pioneers of a brave new world," as he characterized the economic lead-
ers of that era, created business opportunities that were previously
nonexistent, or quickly seized them as they appeared and thereby
aided in the creation of an industrial environment at once challenging
and rewarding to the entrepreneur. On every score Lipson found evi-
dence of the capitalist spirit as manifest in the conception and carrying
out of speculative endeavors. Great captains of industry were rela-
tively scarce, but the single entrepreneur who put his own and some-
times other people's money into business enterprises for profit was
characteristic of the era. Individual innovators, while playing a sup-
plementary role to entrepreneurs, aided them by demonstrating the
practicality of their inventions. The men whose inventions revolu-
tionized the textile industry in the eighteenth century are household
names-Hargreaves with his spinning jenny in 1767, Arkwright with
his water frame in 1768, Crompton with his cotton mule in 1775,
and Watt with his steam engine in 1782. In some instances a single
individual combined the roles of entrepreneur and innovator. Ark-
wright, who was a barber and wigmaker, secured the services of a
clockmaker, a blacksmith, and a watch-toolmaker to improve an early
model of a cotton spinning machine and together with other persons
invested ?12,000 between 1771 and 1774 in the erection and operation
of a cotton mill [30, pp. 294-95]. Abraham Darby, who was the first
ironmaker to use coke instead of charcoal in iron smelting, erected 7
furnaces, which by 1756 were producing 20 to 22 tons of iron a week.
The Duke of Bridgwater constructed canals to transport coal from his
colliery to markets at Manchester and Liverpool.


---Economics-1959-0-07.txt---
In agriculture no less than in industry and commerce, the private
individual stands out as the innovator and enterpriser. We are all
familiar with the contributions to scientific farming made by Jethro
Tull, Lord Townshend, and other giants of the era. Wlhat we frequently
overlook is that a host of small farmers were experimenting with crop
rotation and better breeding of livestock. The few names that stand out
so strikingly are a reflection of a development common to all English
agriculture.
But not only in economic affairs and in the advance of technology
did the phenomenon of individualism manifest itself. Mitchell por-
trayed to his students in a striking manner the extent to which the
spirit of individual enterprise and initiative permeated the whole
cultural fabric of eighteenth-century England. Individuals, frequently
of humble origin but always of unusual talent, imagination, and enter-
prise, raised the level of cultural achievement throughout its whole
range. The fine arts, literature, historical writing, journalism, the law,
religion, philanthropy, education-all felt the impact of individuals of
great intelligence and vision who dedicated themselves to the trans-
forming of ideas into reality. William I-Iogarth, son of a schoolmaster,
used painting as a medium for the pointing of a moral and the telling
of a tale, creating his own art by using color instead of language.
Joshua Reynolds, also the son of a schoolmaster, and Thomas Gains-
borough brought portraiture to new heights. In recognition of his
achievement Reynolds became the first president of the Royal Acad-
emy. Daniel Defoe (1661-1731), the son of a butcher, in Robinson
Crusoe, Samuel Richardson (1689-1761), the son of a London wood-
worker, in Pamela and Clarissa Harlowe, and Henry Fielding (1707-
1754) in Tom Jones by the middle of the eighteenth century had
given shape to a new form of writing, the modern English novel. James
Boswell in his classic Life of Samuel Johnson was the creator of a
new type of biography that portrayed the life of his subject in an
unusually intimate and effective manner. David Flume wrote his His-
tory of England, XVilliam Robertson his History of Scotland during the
Reigns of Queen Mary and King James VI, and Edward Gibbon his
Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, all "models of exposition con-
cerning the past of the race" that, as Mitchell observed, carried a
different appeal and suggested a different outlook on life from previous
histories.
The eighteenth century witnessed the beginnings of modern journal-
ism with the publication of newspapers combining the functions of re-
porting news and selling advertising. The Morning Post appeared in
1772, the London Times in 1788, and the Morning Advertiser in 1794.
These had been preceded earlier in the century by a series of periodi-


---Economics-1959-0-08.txt---
cals such as the Spectator, the Tatler, and the Guardian, influential in
both politics and literature. It was in the eighteenth century that Lord
Mansfield, Chief Justice of England, organized the commercial law
of Great Britain and introduced important innovations in legal prac-
tice. It was in the eighteenth century that Sir William Blackstone
wrote his Commentaries, which remained a leading legal textbook un-
til our own century. In philanthropy James Oglethorpe promoted his
scheme for colonizing Georgia with condemned criminals, confident
that a wholesome environment would make of them wholesome citizens.
The eighteenth century witnessed the beginnings of prison reform under
the leadership of John Howard and the movement to protect children
from exploitation, led by Jonas Hanway.
Stephen Hales, regarded as the father of plant physiology; John
Roebuck, who introduced the use of lead condensing chambers in
making sulphuric acid; Henry Cavendish, the discover of hydrogen as
a chemical element, the first to combine hydrogen and oxygen to make
water, and the first to devise an accurate method of weighing the earth;
and John Priestley, the first to discover the decomposition of ammonia
by electricity and the first to describe the properties of ammonia,
nitrous acid, sulphur dioxide, hydrogen sulphide, and carbon mon-
oxide-all were eighteenth-century scientists. Their achievements in
these various fields manifested a spirit of individualism that strongly
marked the whole of eighteenth-century England. Finally, what Mitchell
called government by public discussion replaced the arbitrary and often
irresponsible rule of sovereigns. In Parliament, in vestry meetings, in
drawing rooms and social clubs, in coffee houses and taverns, people
discusseed public issues in a lively and critical manner. In these forums
a public opinion crystallized, influential in both political and economic
affairs. The eighteenth century in England was truly a century in
which individualism was a mass phenomenon. The English historian
G. M. Trevelyan has aptly characterized it as "an age of aristocracy
and liberty . . . of individual initiative and institutional decay . . . of
creative vigor in all the trades and arts that serve and adorn the life of
man" [28, p. 339].
It was in this social milieu, this institutional matrix, that the father
of political economy conceived his philosophy that the way to maximize
national income and promote national welfare was to leave individuals
unhampered in their economic activity, free to choose their own oc-
cupations without the restrictions of a socially enforced apprenticeship,
free to organize and operate business enterprise without state sub-
sidies or state direction, and free to buy and sell in any market without
interference from local and national governments.
In short, Smith's economic liberalism, "seeking to vindicate the


---Economics-1959-0-09.txt---
right of the individual to shape his own destiny," was a product of his
age. It reflected a mode of thinking that was manifest in politics, in
religion, in the arts, in science, in commerce and industry-a spirit that
had permeated the whole fabric of eighteenth-century English society.2
It has been said that no economist has encompassed his age so thor-
oughly as did Adam Smith. It is perhaps equally true that no economist
was so encompassed by his age as was Adam Smith.
Nothing pleases the educated mind so much as the systematic,
philosophical expression of ideas with which it is familiar and which
it deems good, by one whose eloquence, erudition, and profundity it can
scarcely hope to achieve. The Wealth of Nations had a following wait-
ing to be led. Before Smith's death it had run through five editions; by
the end of the eighteenth century it had been translated into five for-
eign languages and had been pirated in Ireland. It was discussed in
drawing rooms and quoted by parliamentarians. Many of the restric-
tions against which it complained were embodied in laws and regula-
tions that had largely become dead letters; nevertheless, it was not
until well into the nineteenth century that Parliament wiped off the
statute books the last of the mercantilistic measures and officially em-
braced free trade in international commerce. In doing so it responded
not so much to what anybody had written as to what nearly everybody
who counted thought. The success of the free-trade movement was a
belated recognition of the fact that England's industry and manu-
facturing were the world's best and that the interests of English busi-
nessmen demanded free access to markets and raw materials.
II. The Organizational Revolution
But economic individualism, the philosophical product of indi-
vidualistic capitalism, had no sooner conquered men's minds than the
great transformnation was ushering in the next sequence in the inexor-
able flow of institutions and ideas. Corporate capitalism was soon to re-
place individual capitalism as the characteristic institution of a mecha-
nized factory system, geared to mass-production methods and utilizing
the sciences of chemistry and physics for utilitarian ends. The business
corporation was soon to become the epicenter of an organizational
revolution of earthquake proportions. Just as the individual and indi-
vidualism dominated eighteenth-century society, so the organization
has come to dominate twentieth-century society. In nearly all areas
of twentieth-century social and intellectual life-business, sports, re-


---Economics-1959-0-10.txt---
ligion, philanthropy, civil liberties, education, communication, the arts
-the organization has replaced the individual as an institution for
promoting enterprise and getting things done. At the center of this
organizational revolution is the business corporation.
Smith's well-known skepticism of the corporation as an entrepre-
neurial device for carrying on economic activity was reflected in early
American attitudes. The first American work on political economy,
published in 1820, regarded nongovernmental corporations as "prinma
facie, injurious to national wealth" and as institutions that should
"be looked upon by those who have no money, with jealousy and
suspicion." "They are," said Daniel Raymond,
and ought to be considered, as artificial engines of power, contrived by the
rich, for the purpose of increasing their already too great ascendency,
and calculated to destroy that natural equality among men, which God
has ordained, and which no government has a right to lend its power in
destroying. The tendency of such institutions is to cause a more unequal
division cf property, and a greater inequality among men, than would
otherwise take place . .. [21, p. 429].
In 1840 the governor of Massachusetts, where most of the existing
corporations were then doing business, in a message to the Great and
General Court said of them:
These societies are one of the vices of our time. They encourage speculation
and fraud, mobilize landed property, overturn matrimonial arrangements,
escape publicity in the transfer of real property, diminish the sense of
individual responsibility, create property in mortmain, prevent all penal
remedies, are lacking in moral sense, and constitute finally a grave social
peril by concentrating too muLch power in the hands of certain of our
citizens [22, p. 22].
Such ideas today sounid quaint indeed. Today the corporation is re-
garded as the master business institution, essential to the effective
utilization and progressive development of modern technology and
responsible for the high standard of material welfare and prosperity
that, with temporary intlerruptions, has characterized American society
for the past half century. This change in attitude has paralleled the
remarkable growth of corporate enterprise, both in the scope and mag-
nitude of its operations and in the frequency with which it has been
utilized.
The modern corporation, it should be noted, is a man-made institu-
tion, made legally possible as the states have liberalized their in-
corporation laws in response to the demands of businessmen, or lawyers
who have spoken for them. With its perpetual existence, tlle almost
unlimited scope of its legitirnate activities, the limited liability of its


---Economics-1959-0-11.txt---
legal but absentee owners, the continuity of its management, and its
legal autonomy, it has afforded almost an ideal instrument for carrying
on large-scale production and larger-scale business enterprise. It has
made possible three great combination or merger movements that have
changed the structure of American industry: the merger movement
between 1897 and 1903, the merger movement of the 1920's, and the
current merger movement, in progress since the close of the second
world war. Economists have differed sharply as to the effect of these
movements on competition, and less sharply as to their effect
on industrial concentration. On the latter issue the differences of
opinion that existed a few years ago now seem largely reconciled. No
student of industrial history will challenge the statement that at the
turn of the century the Great Combination Movement concentrated
the output of many basic industries in a smaller number of firms than
had previously controlled it. In truth it would seem no exaggeration
to say that no other period of industrial history, in a time so brief,
has experienced so great a transformation in the structure of industry.
Similarly, most students accept the findings of Berle and Means that
in the period from 1924 to 1929 the assets of the 200 largest business
corporations increased more rapidly than the assets of all other busi-
ness corporations [8, p. 35]. Morris Adelman's study [1] revealed a
decrease in industrial concentration from 1933 to 1947, but the merger
movement of the current decade has reversed that trend.3
A significant characteristic of the merger movements is that each has
taken place in the face of a law designed to prevent it. The Sherman
Act voiced the fear of a rural and small-town citizenry that combina-
tions threatened the opportunity and even the survival of the small
businessman and endangered the welfare of the farmer. Despite its
comprehensive prohibition of every combination in restraint of trade
regardless of the form it took, the Sherman Act proved helpless to stay
the movement inaugurated by the trusts of the 1880's and carried to
completion by the corporations of the 1890's. The merger movement
of the 1920's followed on the heels of a Congressional effort to make
good the deficiencies of the Sherman Act; Section 7 of the Clayton Act
prohibited the acquisition of stock by one corporation in allother where
the effect would be to lessen competition between the two companies.


---Economics-1959-0-12.txt---
And the merger movement of the 1950's has steadily progressed in
the face of the Celler-Kefauver amendment to Section 7 of the Clayton
Act, which was designed to stop it.
That the combination movement has proceeded apace while an
articulate minority has tried to stem it reflects, I believe, the whole-
hearted acceptance of the modern corporation by contemporary society.
In manufacturing, mining, wholesaling, indeed in the whole range of
economic activities loosely designated by the term industry, corporate
enterprise has replaced the individual entrepreneur as a characteristic
business institution.4
The several combination movements have resulted from complex
causes, but they have all represented in greater or less degree a quest
by business for security. Business firms have sought through mergers
to isolate themselves from the vagaries of the market. The industrial
combination movement has been paralleled by the growth of powerful
labor unions that, whatever their incidental benefit to individual work-
ers, have had as their primary goal the sale of labor under noncompeti-
tive conditions.
The use of the organization as an instrument for carrying on activity
has not been confined to business and labor. To an impressive extent it
has supplanted the individual in the educational and cultural areas
of American life: science, creative scholarship, sports, philanthropy,
religion, civil liberties, and the like.
The growth of knowledge is essentially a social process in which
each generation starts with the accumulated wisdom of previous ages.
Although a single generation's contribution may bulk large in compari-
son with that of any previous generation, at any one time it represents
but a small part of society's total knowledge. While the accumulation
of knowledge is a social process, traditionally it has been kept going
by the discoveries of skeptical and inquiring individuals. The United
States patent policy was based on this idea. To promote the progress
of science and useful arts the Constitution provides that an inventor
may have an exclusive right to his discoveries for a limited time under
terms laid down by Congress. The Constitution, as a political instru-
ment reflecting the influence of eighteenth-century individualism, con-
templates that the rewards of technological improvement shall go to
the individual inventor. It makes no provision for teamwork or group


---Economics-1959-0-13.txt---
enterprise in the inventive process. Just as the modern corporation
has replaced the individual as coordinator of production and manager
of business, so invention has become a group process. Research teams
working in well-equipped laboratories under centralized guidance and
according to well-defined plans have largely replaced the lone investiga-
tor whose research was circumscribed only by his curiosity, his intel-
lectual ability, and his imagination. Corporations have sought to dis-
cover and foster not the individual inventor but the well-rounded
scientist, loyal to the organization and willing to subordinate his per-
sonal interests to group interests and to gear his endeavors to those of
like-minded colleagues, interested in discovering new ways of applying
existing knowledge to the commercialization of new products and
processes rather than in carrying on basic research. The following
statement by an executive of a large industrial corporation illustrates
the trend towards group activity: "Except in certain research assign-
ments, few specialists in a large company ever work alone. There is
little room for virtuoso performances" [33, p. 2143.
The federal government, which directly and indirectly through tax
policy has become the chief sponsor and financier of research activities,
has greatly accelerated the shift to teamwork in research directed
toward practical ends. In research contracts that government agencies
awarded in 1953, 1954, and 1955, 93 per cent of the $5.6 billion total
went to applied rather than fundamental research [33, p. 218]. It is
a reasonable assumption that virtually all was spent on corporate
or other group projects, rather than on research by individual in-
vestigators. John H. Troll, physicist and vice president of Electronics
Corporation of America, commenting on the government's subsidizing
private research in defense contracts, had this to say:
This approach has debilitated all government research facilities, leaving
research and development vital to our defense to be performed under con-
tracts by private firms, under a system that leads to the selection of
contractors on the basis of size and financial status rather than scientific
capability. This in turn has brought about an "organization man" ap-
proach to research that destroys individual creativity in the scientist by
leading to a sort of creeping collectivism more usually associated with
the Soviet Union [29, p. 22].
Philanthropic foundations confronted with the task of giving away
hundreds of millions of dollars have generally found it convenient to
support carefully designed research projects involving the joint effort
of groups rather than the work of single scholars. The scholar who
requests financial aid for his research lacks the glamor of a "big
operation"; his only qualifications may be a talent for research, a
thirst for knowledge, and an insatiable curiosity. As a former founda-


---Economics-1959-0-14.txt---
tion administrator expressed it, "The foundations in assisting re-
search have suffered from chronic 'projectitus.'"
Sports, religion, and philanthropy have similarly succumbed to
the organizational revolution. Baseball, the great American pastime,
was formerly regarded as an outlet for the play impulses of the
American youth, a form of exercise and recreation useful in develop-
ing muscular coordination, manual dexterity, and mental agility. It
still affords an opportunity for the display of individual prowess, but
currently it has become an organized business activity in which a
handful of individuals are paid to participate and millions pay to
watch. Baseball teams are owned by groups of businessmen who
operate them as business enterprises under franchises carrying valua-
ble privileges. In the big leagues-around which many satellite
leagues operate, primarily as feeders to the larger affiliate-the free-
dom of a player to pursue his career has given way to a set of rules
governing the sale and purchase of all players-rules formulated in
response to the business needs of the organization.
The Protestant Reformation freed the seventeenth-century indi-
vidual from the supervision of an ecclesiastical hierarchy and placed
upon him the responsibility of answering for himself the awesome
question, "WVhat must I do to be saved?" In contrast, twentieth-
century salvation has become a group enterprise. Billy Graham is not
merely a dynamic, unusually persuasive servant of God carrying
Christ's message to lost and sinful souls, but he is the central figure
in an organization created to carry on God's work through a series of
carefully planned campaigns, locally directed by groups of religious
leaders and businessmen who have been organized by an advance
team of professional promotors. In the nightly battle for the Lord,
Graham is assisted by a corps of ushers, advisers, and counsellors
skilled in the techniques of mass salvation. In the language of a caustic
commentator, Graham "operates an assembly line of faith" [14,
p. 199], geared to handle hundreds of souls in a single night.
Philanthropy has traditionally been an individual enterprise, a
matter of the heart. People actuated by the Christian spirit have
helped those who are less fortunate. Charity frequently has expressed
a personal relationship between giver and recipient. Today the United
Givers Fund or the Community Chest is the official organization for
the dispensation of the Lord's largesse. The organizations collect con-
tributions not as voluntary gifts individually and spontaneously given
but through well-organized teams with captains, lieutenants, sub-
ordinate officers, and privates organized to collect their quotas from
the groups assigned to them. The appropriate size of each contribution
may be suggested by a central agency as a fixed percentage of the


---Economics-1959-0-15.txt---
giver's salary. Total contributions are dispersed through intermediary
organizations to the ultimate beneficiaries. The giver need never know
where the gift goes, nor the beneficiary from whence it comes.
The selection of books at one time was regarded as a matter of
individual choice requiring, for some readers at least, the most dis-
criminating judgment. As an indicator of the man himself, Ben Jonson
ranked a man's choice of books with his choice of friends.5 The
organizational revolution has changed all this. Beginning with the
Book-of-the-Month Club in 1926 [32, p. 5], some eighty-nine com-
mercial book clubs [4, p. 101] have been organized which, in the
words of a commentator, "for yearly fees, not only relieve their sub-
scribers of the physical exertion incidental to purchasing books, but
even free them from the mental anguish of making selections" [16,
p. 233]. Between 1954 and 1956 sales of adult trade books increased
by only 4 per cent while sales of book-club books increased by 25 per
cent [4, p. 87]. The Business Leaders' Book Club, the Educator's
Book Club, the Farmers' Book Club, the Science Book Club, the
Sportsman's Book Club, and the others all undertake to provide their
members with books suitable to readers of a certain type; and for
those who can't recognize their own type but want to buy the right
book, membership can be had in Best-in-Books.
The contrast I have been illustrating between the role of the indi-
vidual in eighteenth-century society and his role in twentieth-century
society is sharply revealed by comparing Patrick Henry's and the
American Civil Liberties Union's conceptions of the nature of the
fight for civil liberties. In 1775 Patrick Henry uttered his immortal
words, "Is life so dear or peace so sweet as to be purchased at the
price of chains and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not
what course others may take, but as for me, give me liberty or give
me death." In the 1950's the American Civil Liberties Union has this
to say of its own work: "The American Civil Liberties Union is the
only permanent non-partisan organization defending the Bill of Rights
for all-without distinction or compromise" [3, back covers].
But to recount these well-known facts on the decline of individual-
ism is not to decry them. It is merely to indicate something of the
scope and impact of the organizational revolution.
III. Economnists and the Organizational Revolution
With the organizational revolution affecting virtually every phase
of American culture and most significantly the economic sector, it
would have been strange indeed had not the thinking of American


---Economics-1959-0-16.txt---
economists been affected by it. As the neoclassical economists recon-
ciled and refined the doctrines of the classical and utilitarian schools,
the doctrines gained in precision and validity of logic but lost in
relevance. So much so that Piero Sraffa as early as 1926 character-
ized current price theory as
. . . essentially a pedagogic instrument, somewhat like the study of the
classics, and, unlike the study of the exact sciences and law, its purposes
are exclusively those of training the mind, for which reason it is hardly
apt to excite the passions of men, even academical men . . . [27, pp. 535-
36].
In 1942 Joseph Schumpeter, commenting in a similar vein on the
proposition that under perfect competition the profit motive among
businessmen tends to maximize production, remarked that "in the
process of being more correctly stated and proved, the proposition lost
much of its content-it does emerge from the operation, to be sure,
but it emerges emaciated, barely alive" [24, p. 771.
The response of American economists to the far-reaching institu-
tional changes I have referred to was to reconstruct price theory to
make it more relevant to the structure and functioning of American
industry. Edward Chamberlin [11] tried systematically to revitalize it.
J. M. Clark [12], J. A. Schumpeter [24], E. G. Nourse [19], J. K. Gal-
braith [13], and others have in less comprehensive but equally sig-
nificant ways contributed to contemporary notions of how price is
determined and how it functions when large business units by reason
of their size or the differentiation of their products have power over
prices and output. Except for the contribution of Chamberlin, who
is interested in pure theory and approaches the price problem from
a highly abstract le'vel, the most significant aspect of these contri-
butions to current economic thinking is that despite marked differences
in the details of their logic, they all find in the industrial structure
an institutional arrangement compatible with the effective function-
ing of the economy. And so do their many followers-the expounders
of the New Competition. Just as Smith in an age of individualism
regarded laissez-faire competition as an instrument for harmonizing
man's greed with the general welfare, so these economists have dis-
covered forces in the contemporary organization and structure of
industry that if left alone will promote the public welfare.
Clark is not disturbed by the contemporary industrial structure
because, despite its oligopolistic business units, he views potential
competition and the competition of substitutes as checks upon their
power, which, although not perfect, may result in long-run prices
that will closely approach those of pure competition. He also finds


---Economics-1959-0-17.txt---
that in industries of large fixed costs, short-run marginal-cost pricing
would prove disastrous. He concludes his discussion of the concept of
workable competition with the optimistic but guarded "hope that
government need not assume the burden of doing something about
every departure from the model of perfect competition" [12, p. 256].
Nourse in his Price Making in a Democracy [19] assumes that the
structure of industry and the economies of mass production inevitably
give to large firms power over the market; but he believes that if busi-
nessmen can be made to see their long-run interest in sustained profits
and a stable economy, they will deliberately pass on to consumers
in the form of lower prices the gains made possible by advanced tech-
nology. "We can only hope," he says,
that the ultimate intellectual judgment of private businessmen will be
not merely that responsibility is the best policy in the limited terms in
which it has already been put in practice and validated by experience but
also in that broader and more comprehensive interpretation of responsi-
bility that requires the individual businessman to follow practices that
sustain the sources of general prosperity [19, p. 446].
Despite the treacherous bypaths of monopoly and the pitfalls of short-
run profits, Nourse looks to the "invisible hand" to harness the selfish-
ness of the leaders of corporate enterprise and direct it to the general
good. As he expresses it, "Adam Smith's recognition of self-interest as
a perennial and dependable spring of human conduct is as true today
as it was in his time" [19, p. 449].
Galbraith [13], while in agreement with Nourse that the economies
of mass production make inevitable an industrial organization that if
not checked places monopoly power in the hands of businessmen, does
not look to the wisdom and restraint of those who have power to in-
sure that they will not misuse it. On the contrary he thinks that power
over the market tends to breed a countervailing power that will limit
the original power so that it can do no public harm. Where counter-
vailing power does not spontaneously develop, it is the government's
duty to create it. Galbraith envisages eventually a society made up
wholly of power blocs arrayed against each other, and he relies on their
conflicting interests to promote the public welfare.
Schumpeter [24] believed that the essence of modern capitalism
is its dynamic character. Forces inherent in it are constantly under-
mining any strategic advantage that a monopoly may temporarily
acquire. Better processes and products are constantly replacing those
that may be temporarily monopolized. Temporary monopoly itself
promotes the general welfare, for it gives a security to investments
without which they might not be made. The "perennial gale of cre-


---Economics-1959-0-18.txt---
ative destruction" [24, p. 84] is a force before which monopoly must
disintegrate, and its winds bring better products, more productive
processes, more economical sources of raw materials, and more
efficient forms of business organization. Schumpeter regarded the
Great Combination Movement, which radically changed the structure
of industry at the close of the century, as a manifestation of this
perennial gale without which the full productive potentiality of capi-
talism could not have been realized. Schumpeter left little place in his
scheme of things for an antitrust policy; he seemed to regard it as
a sort of sniping operation, which might annoy and embarrass busi-
nessmen but by itself would prove powerless to stay what he regarded
as the forces of progress.
This brief resume of the doctrines of contemporary American
economists who have concerned themselves with the functioning of a
price system characterized by monopolistic competition is, of course,
inadequate to do justice to the details of their logic, which at times is
both profound and brilliant and which has validity in its application
to some industrial situations. There is something of truth in what
each says, and muclh of truth in what some of them say. Their com-
mon ground, however, is that they all think much alike with regard
to the workability of the contemporary economic system-a system
whose structure is the product of an organizational revolution that
has embraced virtually every aspect of American culture. That they
think this way is, I believe, a reflection of the influence of the
Zeitgeist on economic thinking.
But theorists concerned with industrial structure have a greater
obligation to society than to discover that its economy works well.
As political economists we should be interested in understanding the
forces that have shaped our economic system and may determine its
destiny; and we should know more about how it works than the pro-
ponents of workable competition have told us. On the latter point we
can learn something from what corporate executives or their spokes-
men have to say on the question of power and social responsibility.
Business leaders recognize what some economists are loath to see,
and they acknowledge by indirection what economists often deny-that
the modern corporation's relative size, the scale on which it buys
and sells, and its investment policy may give it power over particular
markets or over the whole economy. Having power, corporate execu-
tives are asking themselves what are their social responsibilities in
using it. In answering this question they acknowledge obligations to
the corporation itself, its shareholders, its employees, the consuming
public, and the whole economy. Business leaders today are beginning
to think of themselves as stewards in whose hands rests the economic


---Economics-1959-0-19.txt---
welfare of society. The late chairman of the Johns-Manville Corpora-
tion put it this way:
In the evolution of a complex industrial society the social responsibility of
management has broadened correspondingly. Management no longer repre-
sents, as it once did, merely the single interest of ownership; increasingly
it functions on the basis of a trusteeship which endeavors to maintain,
between four basic interlocking groups, a proper balance of equity. Today
the executive head of every business is accountable not only to his share-
holders, but to the members of his working organization, to his customers,
and to the public [9, p. 49 ].
Fortune, the magazine of big business, tells us that "one of the
most obvious yet least recognized facts of our time is that the large
corporation is becoming one of free society's major instruments of
economic justice" [10, p. 98]. On the question of the corporation's
social responsibility, Frank W. Pierce, a director of what Fortune
regards as America's model corporation, the Standard Oil Company
(New Jersey), states that "it is becoming clear that in our modern
society top management has the opportunity-in fact, I should say
the duty-to act as a balance wheel in relation to three groups of
interests-the interests of owners, of employees, and of the public,
all of whom have a stake in the output of industry" [9, p. 51, n. 81.6
Not only does the modern corporation recognize its obligation to the
public, but it conceives that obligation broadly. It has for some time
been a self-appointed guardian of private enterprise and has engaged
in an educational campaign to create public opinion about itself and
the traditional American way of life with which it identifies itself.
In doing so it has assumed that it can sell private enterprise to the
American public just as it sells soap, cosmetics, electrical appliances,
or automobiles. Corporate leaders talking to each other have said,
"We have a continuous selling job to do," involving the merchandising
of "certain simple facts." They believe that to get the best results they
should follow, as they have put it, a "down-to-earth simple approach"
in which they "take people by their mental hands" [9, p. 56] and lead
them to the altar of free enterprise where they may find renewed faith
in it. In this educational and spiritual campaign they are utilizing the
usual media of mass communication-the radio, television, and the
press-through which they try to shape attitudes, curb or create


---Economics-1959-0-20.txt---
prejudices, coin good will, and create habits of thought without the
public's being aware that its ideas are being fabricated for it. Witness
the recent wave of corporate institutional advertising designed to sell
not products but the corporate executives' conception of the Ameri-
can way of life and the corporation's place in it. The United States
Steel Corporation brings to vast television audiences not merely
entertainment of high cultural value but a picture of itself and its nu-
merous corporate subsidiaries as "the industrial family that serves the
nation." And institutional advertising does not neglect the appeal to
idealism. The American Petroleum Institute describes in eloquent lan-
guage the role that the American oil industry is playing in "man's quest
for freedom." As an "energizer of men's thoughts and a contributor to
freedom" [5, p. 21], we are assured, it will continue to play an increas-
ingly important role. General Electric, boasting that progress is its most
important product, generously identifies its achievements with those of
the electrical industry of which it is a part and with the growth and
progress of a greater America, which it is privileged to serve [6,
pp. 6-7].
In conducting this educational campaign, spokesmen for the corpora-
tions have used the customary mass-communication media but have not
relied on them alone. They have resorted to subtler and more personal
means for disseminating ideas: plant tours, special programs for clergy-
men, and summer conferences and seminars for college professors. To
the latter they have invited scores of social scientists, some of whom
they have regarded as holding a warped idea of the place of big busi-
ness in the American economy, and they have entertained them with a
lavish generosity to which few have been accustomed. In the language
of the poet, some who came to scoff remained to pray.
In recent years the corporation's educational interests have broad-
ened, and it has assumed increasing responsibility for the financial
welfare of the American system of private higher education. To meet
the plight of American colleges and to forestall federal assistance, with
its threat to freedom of inquiry, the corporation is stepping into the
breach created by higher costs and a decline in individual giving. The
courts have upheld the legal right of a corporation to bestow on educa-
tional institutions its stockholders' money without their consent, and
Congress has authorized the deduction of gifts of this nature from tax-
able income. In 1955 corporate giving to American colleges is estimated
to have totaled $100,000,000, approximating from 7 to 8 cents out of
every dollar spent by private schools [20, p. 12]. More important, three
top-flight corporate executives were instrumental in the formation of
the Council for Financial Aid to Education, for whose direction a dis-
tinguished scholar and former college president was selected. With gift-


---Economics-1959-0-21.txt---
hungry college presidents backing the movement and corporate execu-
tives not only recognizing, in the language of the New York Times, that
"an increase in community-mindedness is a necessary consequence of
the enormous growth in the size and power of corporations" but also
identifying "the fate of the private liberal arts college with the fate of
the private enterprise system" [20, p. 12], corporate giving is destined
to grow both in size and in public favor.
Whither these institutional changes are leading us we do not know,
and about them most economists have been little concerned. Nor have
the other social scientists, who also have made peace with their environ-
ment, found them worthy of study. A noteworthy exception is Adolph
Berle, who in his brilliant analysis, The 20th Century Capitalist Revo-
lution [7], recognizes the modern corporation not merely as the agency
in whose power rests the economic welfare of America, but as a social
and political institution whose influence extends far beyond the market
it serves. In the current atmosphere of ideological warfare the great
corporation, Berle tells us, has undertaken, sometimes at the behest of
the federal government, sometimes voluntarily, the responsibility for
policing the nation's internal security system. Berle contends that in
acting as a policeman the corporation can and sometimes does violate
with impunity employees' constitutional rights by arbitra.rily dismissing
workers whose loyalty has become suspect. He believes that not only
does the modern corporation have power over the lives of tens of thou-
sands of workers, but-having in mind the operations of a dozen large
oil companies both in international trade and in exploiting the oil re-
sources of underdeveloped countries-that it exercises a power in inter-
national affairs like that of a soverign state.
I believe that in the task of analyzing the significance of the modern
corporation to the American economy economists can play a larger role
than they have thus far played. Without adequately investigating the
causes of the merger movements that have restructured modern in-
dustry, they have assumed the inevitability of that structure. Because
modern technology decrees large production units, they have assumed,
without determining precisely the factors responsible for the growth of
particular corporations, that giant managerial units are necessary and
that their size is a reflection of their efficiency. Because corporations
have identified the impressive material progress of the last two decades
with the corporate system of control, some economists have assumed
that the large corporation is responsible for this progress. Because cor-
porations have spent millions for research in well-equipped laboratories
out of which have come remarkable industrial innovations, some econo-
mists have assumed that individual researchers can contribute little to
the advance of technology. These I believe are conclusions that have


---Economics-1959-0-22.txt---
come largely from superficial observation of the material circumstances
that surround us. Instead they should be hypotheses to be tested.
There are other questions that are particularly appropriate for ex-
ploration by economists who study contemporary institutions. What is
happening to the mobility of the factors of production as labor and capi-
tal become controlled by ever larger organizational units? What effect
are corporate-financed social security programs and union rules gov-
erning seniority and other conditions of employment having on the
mobility of labor? What effect is the corporation's interest in develop-
ing the well-rounded, loyal organization man, in preference to the non-
conformist of distinction, having on the supply and mobility of mana-
gerial talent? What can we learn about prices from the recent tendency
of corporations to finance expansion out of earnings without direct re-
course to financial markets? What are the factors that explain the ap-
parent anomaly of rising prices and declining production? Do the price
and investment policies of big business on balance inhibit rather than
promote the growth of output and investment? Do they result in a dis-
tribution of income incompatible with the fullest utilization of existing
productive facilities? Finally, and most important, to what extent can
the structure of industry be modified and the economy made more flexi-
ble without loss of efficiency? Can this be done through tax measures?
Can it be done through more selective and vigorous administration of
the antitrust laws? These are some of the questions with which stu-
dents of industrial structure might well be concerned. They are becom-
ing increasingly important to a free-enterprise economy in a world of
competitive co-existence.
Oliver Wendell Holmes once remarked, "Every now and then a
man's mind is stretched by a new idea . . . and never shrinks back to its
former dimensions" [15, p. 266]. It is to be hoped that the minds of
contemporary students of economic institutions that have now encom-
passed the corporate system may be sufficiently flexible to engender an
inquiring attitude about what it means and where it is leading us.


---Economics-1959-0-23.txt---

---Economics-1960-0-03.txt---
The American people have of late been more conscious of the busi-
ness cycle, more sensitive to every wrinkle of economic curves, more
alert to the possible need for contracyclical action on the part of govern-
ment, than ever before in our history. Minor changes of employment or
of productivity or of the price level, which in an earlier generation would
have gone unnoticed, are nowadays followed closely by laymen as well
as experts. This sensitivity to the phenomena of recession and inflation
is a symptom of an increased public awareness of both the need for and
the attainability of economic progress. It is precisely because so much
of current industrial and governmental practice can be better in the
future that our meetings this year are focused on the broad problem of
improving the performance of the American economy. However, as we
go about the task of appraisal and criticism, it will be well to discipline
our impatience for reform. In the measure that we avoid exaggerating
our nation's failures or understanding its successes, we shall make it
easier for ourselves as well as for economists in other countries to see
current needs and developments in a just perspective.
It is a fact of the highest importance, I think, that although our
economy continues to be swayed by the business cycle, its impact on the
lives and fortunes of individuals has been substantially reduced in our
generation. More than twenty-five years have elapsed since we last ex-
perienced a financial panic or a deep depression of production and em-
ployment. Over twenty years have elapsed since we last had a severe
business recession. Between the end of the second world war and the
present, we have experienced four recessions, but each was a relatively


---Economics-1960-0-04.txt---
mild setback. Since 1937 we have had five recessions, the longest of
which lasted only 13 months. There is no parallel for such a sequence
of mild-or such a sequence of brief-contractions, at least during the
past hundred years in our own country.
Nor is this all. The character of the business cycle itself appears to
have changed, apart from the intensity of its over-all movement. We
usually think of the business cycle as a sustained advance of produc-
tion, employment, incomes, consumption, and prices, followed by a sus-
tained contraction, which in time gives way to a renewed advance of
aggregate activity beyond the highest levels previously reached. We
realize that changes in the price level occasionally outrun changes in
production, that employment is apt to fluctuate less than production,
and that consumption will fluctuate still less; but we nevertheless think
of their movements as being roughly parallel. This concept of the busi-
ness cycle has always been something of a simplification. For example,
during the early decades of the nineteenth century, when agriculture
dominated our national economy, occasional declines in the physical
volume of production, whether large or small, had little effect on the
number of jobs and sometimes had slight influence even on the flow of
money incomes. As agriculture diminished in importance, the nation's
production, employment, personal income, consumption, and price level
fell more closely into step with one another and thus justified our think-
ing of them as moving in a rough parallelism. In recent years, however,
and especially since the second world war, the relations among these
movements have become much looser.
The structure of an economy inevitably leaves its stamp on the char-
acter of its fluctuations. In our generation the structure of the American
economy has changed profoundly, partly as a result of deliberate eco-
nomic policies, partly as a result of unplanned developments. In consid-
ering problems of the future, we can proceed more surely by recogniz-
ing the changes in economic organization which already appear to have
done much to blunt the impact of business cycles.
I
In the early decades of the nineteenth century the typical American
worker operated his own farm or found scope for his energy on the
family farm. Governmental activities were very limited. What there
was of industry and commerce was largely conducted through small
firms run by capitalist-employers. Corporations were rare and virtually
confined to banking and transportation. As the population grew and
capital became more abundant, individual enterprise expanded vigor-
ously but corporate enterprise expanded still more. An increasing part
of the nation's business therefore came under the rule of corporations.


---Economics-1960-0-05.txt---
By 1929, the output of corporate businesses was already almost twice
as large as the output of individual proprietorship and partnerships.
The gap has widened appreciably since then. Corporate profits have
therefore tended to increase faster than the incomes earned by proprie-
tors, who still remain very numerous in farming, retail trade, and the
professions. Fifty years ago the total income of proprietors was per-
haps two and a half times as large as the combined sum of corporate
profits and the compensation of corporate officers. By 1957 this cor-
porate aggregate exceeded by a fourth the income of all proprietors and
by two-thirds the income of proprietors outside of farming.
The great growth of corporations in recent decades has occurred pre-
ponderantly in industries where the firm must operate on a large scale
to be efficient and therefore must assemble capital from many sources.
But a corporation whose stock is held publicly and widely has a life of
its own, apart from that of its owners, and will rarely distribute profits
at the same rate as they are being earned. While profits normally re-
spond quickly and sharply to a change in sales and production, the be-
havior of dividends is tempered by business judgment. In practice,
dividends tend to move sluggishly and over a much narrower range than
profits. Corporations have therefore come to function increasingly as a
buffer between the fluctuations of production and the flow of income to
individuals. In earlier times the lag of dividends was largely a result of
the time-consuming character of corporate procedures. More recently,
the advantages of a stable dividend-especially its bearing on a firm's
financial reputation-have gained increasing recognition from business
managers. Meanwhile, modern trends of taxation have stimulated cor-
porations to rely more heavily on retained profits and less on new stock
issues for their equity funds, and this development in turn has facili-
tated the pursuit of stable dividend policies. Thus the evolution of cor-
porate practice, as well as the growth of corporate enterprise itself,
has served to reduce the influence of a cyclical decline of production
and profits on the flow of income to individuals.
The expansion and the means of financing of governmental enterprise,
especially since the 1930's, have had a similar effect. The increasing
complexity of modern life, a larger concept of the proper function of
government, and the mounting requirements of national defense have re-
sulted in sharp increases of governmental spending. Fifty years ago the
combined expenditure of federal, state, and local governments was
about 7 per cent of the dollar volume of the nation's total output. Gov-
ernmental expenditures rose to 10 per cent of total output in 1929 and
to 26 per cent in 1957. This huge expansion of governmental enterprise
naturally led to increases in tax rates and to an energetic search for
new sources of revenue. In time, taxes came to be imposed on estates,


---Economics-1960-0-06.txt---
gifts, employment, sales, and-most important of all-on the incomwes
of both corporations and individuals. Fifty years ago customs duties
still yielded about half of the total revenue of the federal government,
and none of our governmental units as yet collected any tax on incomes.
Twenty years later, personal and corporate income taxes were already
the mainstay of federal finance. Subsequently, the activities of the fed-
eral government increased much faster than local activities and taxes
followed suit. By 1957 the income tax accounted for nearly 70 per cent
of federal revenue, 8 per cent of state and local revenue, and a little
over half of the combined revenue of our various governmental units.
This dominance of the income tax in current governmental finance,
together with the recent shift of tax collection toward a pay-as-you-go
basis, has measurably enlarged the government's participation in the
shifting fortunes of the private economy. During the nineteenth cen-
tury, taxes were not only a much smaller factor in the economy, but
such short-run elasticity as there was in tax revenues derived almost
entirely from customs duties. Hence, when production fell off and pri-
vate incomes diminished, the accompanying change in governmental
revenues was usually small. In recent years, however, governmental
revenues have become very sensitive to fluctuations of business condi-
tions. When corporate profits decline by, say, a billion dollars, the fed-
eral government will collect under existing law about a half billion less
from corporations. When individual incomes decline by a billion, the
federal government may be expected to collect about $150 million less
from individuals. State income taxes accentuate these effects. In short,
when a recession occurs, our current tax system requires the govern-
ment to reduce rather promptly and substantially the amount of money
that it withdraws from the private economy for its own use. The result
is that the income from production which corporations and individuals
have at their disposal declines much less than does the national income.
Moreover, the operations of government are now so organized that
the flow of personal income from production is bolstered during a re-
cession by increased payments of unemployment insurance benefits. Un-
employment insurance was established on a national basis in 1935, and
the protection of workers against the hazards of unemployment has
increased since then. Not all employees are as yet covered by un-
employment insurance and the benefits, besides, are often inadequate
to provide for essentials. Nevertheless, there has been a gradual im-
provement in the ability of families to get along decently even when the
main breadwinner is temporarily unemployed. At present, over 80 per
cent of those who work for a wage or salary are covered by unemploy-
ment insurance, in contrast to 70 per cent in 1940. The period over


---Economics-1960-0-07.txt---
which benefits can be paid to an unemployed worker has become longer
and the typical weekly benefit has risen in greater proportion than the
cost of living. Furthermore, arrangements have recently been concluded
in several major industries whereby benefits to the unemployed are sup-
plemented from private sources.
Other parts of the vast system of social security that we have de-
vised since the 1930's have also served to support the flow of personal
income at times when business activity is declining. Payments made to
retired workers kept increasing during each recession of the postwar
period. The reason is partly that workers handicapped by old age or
physical disability experience greater difficulty at such times in keeping
their jobs or finding new ones and therefore apply for pensions in some-
what larger numbers. Another factor has been the intermittent liberali-
zation of statutory benefits. But the most important reason for the
steady increase of old-age pensions is the maturing of the social secu-
rity system. In 1940, only 7 per cent of people of age 65 and over were
eligible for benefits from the old-age insurance trust fund, in contrast to
23 per cent in 1948 and 69 per cent in 1958. The trend of other public
pension programs and the various public assistance programs has also
been upward. Between 1929 and 1957 the social security and related
benefits paid out by our various governmental units rose from 1 per
cent of total personal income to 6 per cent. In 1933, with the economy
at a catastrophically low level, these benefit payments were merely $548
million larger than in 1929. On the other hand, in 1958-when business
activity was only slightly depressed-they were $4.4 billion above the
level of 1957. Even these figures understate the difference between cur-
rent conditions and those of a quarter century ago, for they leave out of
account the private pensions which are beginning to supplement public
pensions on a significant scale.
As a result of these several major developments in our national life,
the movement of aggregate personal income is no longer closely linked
to the movement of aggregate production. During the postwar period
we have had several brief but sizable setbacks in production. For exam-
ple, in the course of the recession of 1957-58, the physical output of
factories and mines fell 14 per cent, the physical output of commodi-
ties and services in the aggregate fell 5.4 per cent, and the dollar vol-
ume of total output fell 4.3 per cent. In earlier times personal incomes
would have responded decisively to such a decline in production. This
time the government absorbed a substantial part of the drop in the dol-
lar volume of production by putting up with a sharp decline of its rev-
enues despite the need to raise expenditures. Corporations absorbed
another part of the decline by maintaining dividends while their un-


---Economics-1960-0-08.txt---
distributed profits slumped. In the end, the aggregate of personal in-
comes, after taxes, declined less than 1 per cent and the decline was
over before the recession ended.
Although the details have varied from one case to the next, a marked
divergence between the movements of personal income and production
has occurred in each of the postwar recessions. Indeed, during 1953-54
the total income at the disposal of individuals defied the recession by
continuing to increase. This unique achievement was due to the tax
reduction that became effective soon after the onset of recession as well
as to the structural changes that have reduced the dependence of per-
sonal income on the short-run movements of production.
II
When we turn from personal income to employment, we find that the
imprint of the business cycle is still strong. During each recession since
1948, unemployment reached a level which, while decidedly low in com-
parison with the experience of the 'thirties, was sufficient to cause seri-
ous concern. But although the fluctuations of employment have con-
tinued to synchronize closely with the movements of production, the
relation between the two has been changing in ways which favor greater
stability of employment in the future.
As the industrialization of our economy proceeded during the nine-
teenth century, an increasing part of the population became exposed to
the hazards of the business cycle. Manufacturing, mining, construction,
freight transportation-these are the strategic industries of a develop-
ing economy and they are also the industries in which both production
and jobs have been notoriously unstable. Shortly after the Civil War,
the employees attached to this cyclical group of industries already con-
stituted 23 per cent of the labor force. Employees of industries that have
remained relatively free from cyclical unemployment-that is, agricul-
ture, merchandising, public utilities, financial enterprises, the personal
service trades, and the government-accounted for another 32 per cent.
The self-employed in farming, business, and the professions, whose jobs
are especially steady, made up the rest or 45 per cent of the work force.
This was the situation in 1869. Fifty years later, the proportion of
workers engaged in farming, whether as operators or hired hands, had
shrunk drastically, and this shrinkage was offset only in part by the
relative gain of other stable sources of employment. Consequently, the
proportion of employees in the cyclical industries kept rising, decade
after decade, and reached 36 per cent in 1919.
Clearly, the broad effect of economic evolution until about 1920 was
to increase the concentration of jobs in the cyclically volatile industries,
and this was a major force tending to intensify declines of employment


---Economics-1960-0-09.txt---
during business contractions. Since then, the continued progress of
technology, the very factor which originally was mainly responsible for
the concentration in the cyclical industries, has served to arrest this
tendency. The upward trend of production in manufacturing and the
other highly cyclical industries has remained rapid in recent decades.
However, advances of technology have come so swiftly in these indus-
tries as well as in agriculture that an increasing part of the nation's
labor could turn to the multitude of tasks in which the effectiveness of
human effort improves only slowly, where it improves at all. Thus the
employees of "service" industries constituted 24 per cent of the labor
force in 1919, but as much as 44 per cent in 1957. The proportion of
self-employed workers in business and the professions, which was 9.4
per cent in the earlier year, became 10.6 per cent in the later year.
True, these gains in types of employment that are relatively stable dur-
ing business cycles were largely canceled by the countervailing trend in
agriculture. Nevertheless, the proportion of employees attached to the
cyclically volatile industries has not risen since 1919. Or to express this
entire development in another way, the proportion of workers having
rather steady jobs, either because they work for themselves or because
they are employed in industries that are relatively free from the in-
fluence of business cycles, kept declining from the beginning of our
industrial revolution until about 1920, and since then has moved
slightly but irregularly upward.
Thus, the changing structure of industry, which previously had ex-
ercised a powerful destabilizing influence on employment and output,
particularly the former, has ceased to do so. The new stabilizing tend-
ency is as yet weak, but it is being gradually reinforced by the spread of
"'white-collar" occupations throughout the range of industry. For many
years now, the proportion of people who work as managers, engineers,
scientists, draftsmen, accountants, clerks, secretaries, salesmen, or in
kindred occupations has been increasing. The white-collar group, which
constituted only 28 per cent of the labor force outside of agriculture in
1900, rose to 38 per cent in 1940 and to 44 per cent in 1957. Workers
of this category are commonly said to hold a "position" rather than a
"job" and to be paid a "salary" rather than a "wage." Hence, they are
often sheltered by a professional code which frowns upon frequent
firing and hiring. Moreover, much of this type of employment is by its
nature of an overhead character and therefore less responsive to the
business cycle than are the jobs of machine operators, craftsmen, as-
sembly-line workers, truck drivers, laborers, and others in the "blue-
collar" category. For example, during the recession of 1957-58, the
number of "production workers" employed in manufacturing, who ap-
proximate the blue-collar group, declined 12 per cent, while the employ-


---Economics-1960-0-10.txt---
ment of "nonproduction workers," who approximate the white-collar
group, declined only 3 per cent. This sort of difference has been char-
acteristic of recessions generally, not only the most recent episode, and
on a smaller scale it has also been characteristic of industry generally,
not only of manufacturing.
It appears, therefore, that changes in the occupational structure of
the labor force, if not also in the industrial structure, have been tending
of late to loosen the links which, over a considerable part of our eco-
nomic history, tied the short-run movement of total employment rather
firmly to the cyclical movement of total production, and especially to
the cyclical movement of its most unstable parts-that is, the activities
of manufacturing, mining, construction, and freight transportation.
This stabilizing tendency promises well for the future, although up to
the present it has not left a mark on records of aggregate employment
that is comparable with the imprint that the stabilizing influences we
discussed previously have left on personal income. In the postwar pe-
riod, as over a longer past, the number of men and women at work, and
even more the aggregate of hours worked by them, has continued to
move in fairly close sympathy with the fluctuations of production.
We can no longer justifiably suppose, however, when employment
falls 2 million during a recession, as it did between July 1957 and July
1958, that the number of people who receive an income has declined by
any such figure. In fact, the number of workers drawing unemployment
insurance under the several regular plans rose about 1.3 million during
these twelve months, while the number of retired workers on public
pensions rose another million. Hence, it may be conservatively estimated
that the number of income recipients increased over 300 thousand
despite the recession. In the other postwar recessions our experience
was fairly similar. In other words, as a result of some of the structural
changes on which I dwelt earlier, the size of the income-receiving pop-
ulation has grown steadily and escaped cyclical fluctuations entirely.'
III
Turning next to consumer spending, we must try once again to see
recent developments in historical perspective. The fact that stands out
is that the impact of business cycles on consumption has recently di-
minished, while the effects of consumption on the business cycle have
become more decisive.
In the classical business cycle, as we came to know it in this country,
' This upward trend would appear steeper than I have suggested if recipients of property
income and of public assistance were included in the count. In the present context, how-  ever, it has seemed best to restrict the income-receiving population to the working class, or  more precisely, to members of the labor force or those recently in the labor force who re-  ceive an income as a matter of right and on some regular basis.


---Economics-1960-0-11.txt---
once business investment began declining appreciably, a reduction of
consumer spending soon followed. Sometimes the expansion of invest-
ment culminated because the firms of one or more key industries, finding
that their markets were growing less rapidly than had been anticipated,
made an effort to bring their productive capacity or inventories into
better adjustment with sales. Sometimes the expansion culminated be-
cause the belief grew that construction and financing costs had been
pushed to unduly high levels by the advance of prosperity. Sometimes
it culminated for all these or still other reasons. But whatever the cause
or causes of the decline in investment, it made its influence felt over
an increasing area of the economy. For a while consumer spending
was maintained at a peak level or even kept rising. But since business-
men were now buying on a smaller scale from one another, more and
more workers lost their jobs or their overtime pay, financial embarrass-
ments and business failures became more frequent, and uncertainty
about the business outlook spread to parts of the economy in which
sales and profits were still flourishing. If some consumers reacted to
these developments by curtailing their spending in the interest of
caution, others did so as a matter of necessity. Before long, these cur-
tailments proved sufficient to bring on some decline in the aggregate
spending of consumers. The impulses for reducing business investments
therefore quickened and the entire round of events was repeated, with
both investment and consumption declining in a cumulative process.
As the contraction continued, it tried men's patience, yet in time
worked its own cure. Driven by hard necessity, business firms moved
with energy to reduce costs and increase efficiency. Consumers whose
incomes were declining often saved less or dissaved in order not to
disrupt their customary living standards. Hence, even if sales and prices
were still falling, profit margins improved here and there. In the mean-
time, bank credit became more readily available, costs of building and
terms of borrowing became more favorable, the bond market revived,
business failures diminished, and the investment plans of innovators
and others began expanding again. When recovery finally came, it was
likely to be led by a reduced rate of disinvestment in inventories or by
a new rush to make investments in fixed capital. At this stage of the busi-
ness cycle, consumer spending was at its very lowest level, if not still
declining.
Many of these features of earlier business cycles have carried over
to the present. However, the behavior of consumers in the postwar
recessions has departed from the traditional pattern in two respects. In
the first place, consumers maintained their spending at a high level even
after business activity had been declining for some months, so that the
tendency of recessions to cumulate was severely checked. During the


---Economics-1960-0-12.txt---
recession of 1945 consumer spending actually kept increasing. In each
of the later recessions it fell somewhat; but the decline at no time ex-
ceeded one per cent and lasted only a quarter or two. In the second
place, instead of lagging at the recovery stage of the business cycle, as
it had in earlier times, consumer spending turned upward before pro-
duction or employment resumed its expansion. This shift in cyclical
behavior appears clearly in department store sales, which have been
recorded on a substantially uniform basis for several decades and are
widely accepted as a tolerably good indicator of consumer spending. In
the recoveries of 1921, 1924, 1927, and 1938, these sales lagged by
intervals ranging from two to four months. In 1933 their upturn came
at the same time as in production and employment. It thus appears that,
during the 1920's and 1930's, consumer spending in no instance led the
economy out of a slump. In the postwar period, on the other hand, de-
partment store sales have led successive recoveries by intervals stretch-
ing from two to five months. Of course, department store sales
cover only a small fraction of consumer expenditure, and correction for
price changes would alter their historical record somewhat. But the
mzain features of the cyclical behavior of dollar sales by department
stores are broadly confirmed by other evidence on consumer spending,
which is extensive for recent years. We may therefore conclude with
considerable assurance that consumer spending has played a more dy-
namic role in recent times. Not only have consumers managed their
spending during recessions so that the cumulative process of deflation
has been curbed, but consumer spending has emerged as one of the
active factors in arresting recession and hastening recovery.
This new role of the consumer in the business cycle reflects some of
the developments of the postwar period that we considered earlier,
particularly the greatly enhanced stability in the flow of personal in-
come, the steady expansion in the number of income recipients, and the
relative increase in the number of steady jobs. It reflects also the im-
provements of financial organization and other structural changes
which have strengthened the confidence of people, whether acting as
consumers or investors, in their own and the nation's economic future.
Whatever may have been true of the past, it can no longer be held that
consumers are passive creatures who lack the power or the habit of
initiating changes in economic activities. There is no harm in thinking
of consumer spending as being largely "determined" by past and cur-
rent incomes, provided we also recognize that the level of current in-
comes is itself shaped to a significant degree by the willingness of
people to work hard to earn what they need to live as they feel they
should. The evidence of rising expectations and increased initiative on
the part of consumers is all around us. It appears directly in the rapidly


---Economics-1960-0-13.txt---
rising proportion of women in the labor force, in the sizable and in-
creasing proportion of men who hold down more than one job, in the
slackening of the long-term decline of the average work week in manu-
facturing despite the increased power of trade unions, as well as in-
directly in the improvement of living standards and the great upsurge
of population. Indeed, the expansive forces on the side of consumption
have been so powerful that we must not be misled by the cyclical re-
sponses of consumer spending, small though they were, to which I
referred earlier. There are no continuous records of inventories in the
hands of consumers; but if such statistics were available, we would
almost certainly find that consumption proper, in contrast to consumer
spending, did not decline at all during any of the postwar recessions.
In view of these developments in the realm of the consumer, it is
evident that the force of any cyclical decline of production has in recent
years been reduced or broken as its influence spread through the econ-
omy. Production has remained unstable, but the structure of our econ-
omy has changed in ways which have limited the effects of recessions
on the lives of individuals-on the numbers who receive an income, the
aggregate of personal incomes, consumer spending, actual consumption,
and to some degree even the numbers employed. It is, therefore, hardly
an exaggeration to assert that a good part of the personal security
which in an earlier age derived from living on farms and in closely knit
family units, after having been disrupted by the onrush of industriali-
zation and urbanization, has of late been restored through the new in-
stitutions that have developed in both the private and public branches
of our economy.
IV
In concentrating, as I have thus far, on the changes of economic or-
ganization which have lately served to reduce the impact of business
cycles on the lives of individuals, I have provisionally taken the cyclical
movement of production for granted. Of course, if the fluctuations of
production had been larger, the impact on people would have been
greater. On the other hand, the stabilized tendency of personal income
and consumption has itself been a major reason why recent recessions
of production have been brief and of only moderate intensity. Many
other factors have contributed to this development. Among them are
the deliberate efforts made in our generation to control the business
cycle, of which I have as yet said little.
In earlier generations there was a tendency for the focus of business
thinking to shift from the pursuit of profits to the maintenance of finan-
cial solvency whenever confidence in the continuance of prosperity
began to wane. At such times experienced businessmen were prone to


---Economics-1960-0-14.txt---
reason that it would shortly become more difficult to collect from thelr
customers or to raise funds by borrowing, while they in turn were being
pressed by their creditors. Under the circumstances it seemed only
prudent to conserve cash on hand, if not also to reduce inventories or
accounts receivable. Such efforts by some led to similar efforts by
others, in a widening circle. As pressure on commodity markets, se-
curity mlarkets, and on the banking system mounted, the decline of
business activity was speeded and the readjustment of interest rates,
particularly on the longer maturities, was delayed. More often than
not the scramble for liquidity ran its course without reaching crisis
proportions. Sometimes, however, as in 1873, 1893, and 1907, events
took a sinister turn. Financial pressures then became so acute that
doubts arose about the ability of banks to meet their outstanding ob-
ligations and, as people rushed to convert their deposits into currency,
even the soundest banks were forced to restrict the outflow of cash.
With the nation's system for making monetary payments disrupted,
panic ruled for a time over the economy and production inevitably
slumped badly.
It was this dramatic phase of the business cycle that first attracted
wide notice and stimulated students of public affairs to seek ways and
means of improving our financial organization. The Federal Reserve
Act, which became law under the shadow of the crisis of 1907, re-
quired the pooling of bank reserves and established facilities for tem-
porary borrowing by banks. The hope that this financial reform would
ease the transition from the expanding to the contracting phase of busi-
ness cycles has been amply justified by experience. But the Federal
Reserve System could not prevent the cumulation of financial trouble
during business expansions. Nor could it prevent runs on banks or mas-
sive bank failures, as the Great Depression demonstrated. The need to
overhaul and strengthen the financial system became increasingly clear
during the 'thirties and led to numerous reforms, among them the in-
surance of mortgages, the creation of a secondary market for mort-
gages, the insurance of savings and loan accounts, and-most important
of all-the insurance of bank deposits. These financial reforms have
served powerfully to limit the propagation of fear, which in the past
had been a major factor in intensifying slumps of production.
But more basic than the financial innovations or any other specific
measures of policy has been the change in economic and political atti-
tudes which took root during the 'thirties. The economic theory that
depressions promote industrial efficiency and economic progress lost
adherents as evidence accumulated of the wreckage caused by unem-
ployment and business failures. The political belief that it was best to
leave business storms to blow themselves out lost its grip on men's


---Economics-1960-0-15.txt---
minds as the depression stretched out. In increasing numbers citizens in
all walks of life came around to the view that mass unemployment was
intolerable under modern conditions and that the federal government
has a continuing responsibility to foster competitive enterprise, to pre-
vent or moderate general economic declines, and to promote a high and
rising level of employment and production. This new philosophy of inter-
vention was articulated by the Congress in the Employment Act of 1946,
which solemnly expressed what had by then become a national consensus.
In recent times, therefore, the business cycle has no longer run a
free course and this fact has figured prominently in the plans of busi-
nessmen as well as consumers. During the 1930's, when the objectives
of social reform and economic recovery were sometimes badly confused,
many investors suspected that contracyclical policies would result in
narrowing the scope of private enterprise and reducing the profitability
of investment. These fears diminished after the war as the government
showed more understanding of the need to foster a mood of confidence
so that enterprise, innovation, and investment may flourish. In invest-
ing circles, as elsewhere, the general expectation of the postwar period
has been that the government would move with some vigor to check
any recession that developed, that its actions would by and large con-
tribute to this objective, and that they would do so in a manner that is
broadly consistent with our national traditions. This expectation gradu-
ally became stronger and it has played a significant role in extending
the horizons of business thinking about the markets and opportunities
of the future. The upsurge of population, the eagerness of consumers
to live better, the resurgence of Western Europe, the revolutionary dis-
coveries of science, and the steady flow of new products, new materials,
and new processes have added impetus to the willingness of investors
to expend huge sums of capital on research and on the improvement
and expansion of industrial plant and equipment. Some of these influ-
ences have also been effective in augmenting public investment. The
fundamental trend of investment has therefore been decidedly upward.
The private part of investment has continued to move cyclically; but
it is now a smaller fraction of total national output and it has displayed
a capacity to rebound energetically from the setbacks that come during
recessions.
The specific measures adopted by the government in dealing with the
recessions of the postwar period have varied from one case to the next.
In all of them, monetary, fiscal, and housekeeping policies played some
part, with agricultural price-support programs assuming special promi-
nence in one recession, tax reductions in another, and increases of
public expenditure in still another. Taking a long view, the most nearly
consistent part of contracyclical policy has been in the monetary


---Economics-1960-0-16.txt---
sphere. Since the early 1920's, when the Federal Reserve authorities
first learned how to influence credit conditions through open-market
operations, long-term interest rates have tended to move down as soon
as the cyclical peak of economic activity was reached, in contrast to
the long lags that were characteristic of earlier times. Since 1948 the
decline of long-term interest rates in the early stages of a recession has
also become more rapid. This change in the cyclical behavior of capital
markets reflects the increased vigor and effectiveness of recent mone-
tary policies. Inasmuch as optimism, as a rule, is still widespread during
the initial stages of an economic decline, a substantial easing of credit,
provided it comes early enough, can appreciably hasten economic re-
covery. This influence is exerted only in part through lower interest
rates. Of greater consequence is the fact that credit becomes more
readily available, that the money supply is increased or kept from fall-
ing, that the liquidity of financial assets is improved, and that financial
markets are generally stimulated. The effects of easier credit are apt
to be felt most promptly by smaller businesses and the home-building
industry, but they tend to work their way through the entire economy.
There can be little doubt that the rather prompt easing of credit con-
ditions, which occurred during recent setbacks of production, was of
some significance in keeping their duration so short.
Business firms have also been paying closer attention to the business
cycle, and not a few of them have even tried to do something about it.
These efforts have been expressed in a variety of ways-through the
adoption of long-range capital budgets, closer control of inventories,
and more energetic selling or some relaxation of credit standards in
times of recession. I do not know enough to assess either the extent or
the success of some of these business policies. Surely, business invest-
ment in fixed capital has remained a highly volatile activity-a fact
that is sometimes overlooked by concentrating attention on years in-
stead of months and on actual expenditures instead of new commit-
ments. There is, however, strong evidence that the businessmen of our
generation manage inventories better than did their predecessors. The
inventory-sales ratio of manufacturing firms has lately averaged about
a fourth less than during the 1920's, despite the increased importance
of the durable goods sector where inventories are especially heavy. The
trend of the inventory-sales ratio has also moved down substantially in
the case of distributive firms. This success in economizing on inventories
has tended to reduce the fluctuations of inventory investment relative
to the scale of business operations and this in turn has helped to mod-
erate the cyclical swings in production. Not only that, but it appears
that the cyclical downturns of both inventories and inventory invest-
ment have tended to come at an earlier stage of the business cycle in


---Economics-1960-0-17.txt---
the postwar period than they did previously, so that any imbalance be-
tween inventories and sales could be corrected sooner. Since consumer
outlays-and often also other expenditures-were well maintained dur-
ing the recent recessions of production, the rising phase of inventory
disinvestment ceased rather early and this naturally favored a fairly
prompt recovery of production.
Thus, numerous changes in the structure of our economy have com-
bined to stimulate over-all expansion during the postwar period and to
keep within moderate limits the cyclical declines that occurred in pro-
duction. Indeed, there are cogent grounds for believing that these de-
clines were even more moderate than our familiar statistical records
suggest. The line of division between production for sale and produc-
tion for direct use does not stand still in a dynamic economy. In the
early decades of the industrial revolution an increasing part of our pro-
duction was, in effect, transferred from the home to the shop and factory.
This trend has continued in the preparation of foods, but in other ac-
tivities it appears on balance to have been reversed. The great expan-
sion of home ownership, the invention of all sorts of mechanical con-
trivances for the home, longer vacations, the general eagerness for im-
provement, if not also the income tax, have stimulated many people to
do more and more things for themselves. Consumers have become
equipped to an increasing degree with the capital goods they need for
transportation, for the refrigeration of food, for the laundering of
clothes, as well as for entertainment and instruction. They have also
been doing, on an increasing scale, much of the carpentry, painting,
plumbing, and landscaping around their homes. Such activities of pro-
duction are less subject to the business cycle than the commercial activi-
ties which enter statistical reports. Yet these domestic activities have
undoubtedly been expanding rapidly, and perhaps expanding even more
during the declining than during the rising phase of the business cycle.
Hence, it is entirely probable that the cyclical swings of production have
of late been smaller, while the average rate of growth of production has
been higher, than is commonly supposed.
V
It is in the nature of an economic vocabulary to change slowly, when
it changes at all. We keep speaking of the price system, the business
cycle, capitalism, socialism, communism, and sometimes we even refer
to the "inherent instability" of capitalism or of communism; but the
reality that these terms and phrases are intended to denote or sum up
does not remain fixed. I have tried to show how a conjuncture of struc-
tural changes in our economy has served to modify the business cycle
of our times. Some of these changes were planned while others were


---Economics-1960-0-18.txt---
unplanned. Some resulted from efforts to control the business cycle
while others originated in policies aimed at different ends. Some arose
from private and others from public activities. Some are of very
recent origin and others of long standing. The net result has been that
the intensity of cyclical swings of production has become smaller. The
links that previously tied together the cyclical movements of produc-
tion, employment, personal income, and consumption have become
looser. And, as everyone knows, the once familiar parallelism of the
short-term movements in the physical volume of total production, on
the one hand, and the average level of wholesale or consumer prices, on
the other, has become somewhat elusive.
To be sure, special factors of an episodic character played their
part in recent business cycles, as they always have. For example, a
pent-up demand for civilian goods was highly significant in checking
the recession of 1945. The tax reduction legislated in April 1948 helped
to moderate the recession which began towards the end of that year.
The tax cuts announced soon after business activity began receding
in 1953 merely required executive acquiescence in legislation that had
been passed before any recession was in sight. Again, the sputniks
spurred the government's response to the recession of 1957-58. Special
circumstances such as these undoubtedly weakened the forces of eco-
nomic contraction at certain times; but they also strengthened them at
other times. In particular, governmental purchases from private firms
have not infrequently been an unsettling influence rather than a sta-
bilizing force. We need only recall the drop of federal expenditure on
commodities and services from an annual rate of $91 billion in the early
months of 1945 to $16 billion two years later, or the fall from $59 billion
to $44 billion soon after the Korean hostilities came to a close. The
ability of our economy to adjust to such major disturbances without ex-
periencing a severe or protracted slump testifies not only to our good
luck; it testifies also to the stabilizing power of the structural changes
that I have emphasized.
It seems reasonable to expect that the structural changes in our econ-
omy, which have recently served to moderate and humanize the busi-
ness cycle, will continue to do so. The growth of corporations is not
likely to be checked, nor is the tendency to pay fairly stable dividends
likely to be modified. The scale of governmental activities will remain
very extensive, and so it would be even if the communist threat to our
national security were somehow banished. Our methods of taxation
might change materially, but the income tax will remain a major source
of governmental revenue. Governmental expenditures might fluctuate
sharply, but they are not likely to decline during a recession merely


---Economics-1960-0-19.txt---
because governmental revenues are then declining. The social security
system is more likely to grow than to remain stationary or contract.
Private pension arrangements will multiply and so also may private
supplements to unemployment insurance. Our population will continue
to grow. The restlessness and eagerness of consumers to live better is
likely to remain a dynamic force. Research and development activities
will continue to enlarge opportunities for investment. Governmental
efforts to promote a high and expanding level of economic activity are
not likely to weaken. Private businesses will continue to seek ways to
economize on inventories and otherwise minimize the risk of cyclical
fluctuations in their operations. Employment in agriculture is already
so low that its further decline can no longer offset future gains of the
service industries on the scale experienced in the past. The spread of
white-collar occupations throughout the range of industry will continue
and may even accelerate. For all these reasons, the business cycle is
unlikely to be as disturbing or troublesome to our children as it once
was to us or our fathers.
This is surely a reasonable expectation as we look to the future. Yet,
it is well to remember that projections of human experience remain
descriptions of a limited past no matter how alluringly they are ex-
pressed in language of the future. A lesson of history, which keeps re-
sounding through the ages, is that the most reasonable of expectations
sometimes lead nations astray. If my analysis is sound, it supports the
judgment that the recessions or depressions of the future are likely to
be appreciably milder on the average than they were before the 1940's.
It supports no more than this. In view of the inherent variability of
business cycles and our still somewhat haphazard ways of dealing with
them, there can be no assurance that episodic factors will not make a
future recession both longer and deeper than any we experienced in
the postwar period.
Nor can there be any assurance that the conjuncture of structural
changes on which I have dwelt will not be succeeded by another which
will prove less favorable to economic stability. For example, although
the stabilizing influence of the rising trend of white-collar employment
in manufacturing has been more than sufficient to offset the cyclically
intensifying influence of a greater concentration of employment in the
durable goods sector, the balance of forces might be tipped the other
way in the future. This could happen all the more readily if, as white-
collar work continues to grow, the need to cut costs during a recession
should make this type of employment less stable than it has been.
Again, our exports in recent decades have tended to intensify the busi-
ness cycle somewhat, and this factor may become of larger significance.


---Economics-1960-0-20.txt---
Also, it still remains to be seen whether the rising trend of prices-to
say nothing of the rapidly growing consumer and mortgage debt-may
not serve to complicate future recessions.
A generation ago many economists, having become persuaded that
our economy had reached maturity, spoke grimly of a future of secular
stagnation. Parts of their analysis were faulty and their predictions
have proved wrong; yet their warning helped to mobilize thought and
energy to avert the danger of chronic unemployment. Of late, many
economists have been speaking just as persuasively, though not always
as grimly, of a future of secular inflation. The warning is timely. Dur-
ing the postwar recessions the average level of prices in wholesale and
consumer markets has declined little or not at all. The advances in
prices that customarily occur during periods of business expansion have
therefore become cumulative. It is true that in the last few years the
federal government has made some progress in dealing with inflation.
Nevertheless, wages and prices rose appreciably even during the recent
recession, the general public has been speculating on a larger scale in
common stocks, long-term interest rates have risen very sharply since
mid-1958, and the yield on stocks relative to bonds has become abnor-
mally low. All these appear to be symptoms of a continuation of infla-
tionary expectations or pressures.
Such developments have often led to economic trouble. They could
do so again even if our balance of payments on international account
remained favorable. That, however, has not been the case for some
time. The "dollar shortage" which influenced much of our economic
thinking and practice during the past generation seems to have ended.
The economies of many areas of the Free World, especially of Western
Europe and Japan, have lately been rebuilt and their competitive power
has been restored. This re-establishment of competitive and monetary
links between our country and others may cause us some inconvenience,
but it is basically a promising development for the future. It should
stimulate our economic growth as well as contribute to the economic
progress and political stability of other nations of the Free World. Our
financial policies, however, will gradually need to be adjusted to the
changed international environment. Although our gold stocks are still
abundant and the dollar is still the strongest currency in the world, we
can no longer conduct our economic affairs without being mindful of
gold, or of the short-term balances that foreign governments and citi-
zens have accumulated here, or of the levels of labor costs, interest rates,
and prices in our country relative to those in other nations. Unless the
deficit in our balance of payments is soon brought under better control,
our nation's ability to pursue contracyclical policies during a business
recession may be seriously hampered.


---Economics-1960-0-21.txt---
We are living in extraordinarily creative but also deeply troubled
times. One of the triumphs of this generation is the progress that our
nation has made in reducing economic instability. In the years ahead,
no matter what we do as a people, our economy will continue to undergo
changes, many of which were neither planned nor anticipated. How-
ever, the course of events, both domestic and international, will also de-
pend-and to a large degree-on our resourcefulness and courage in
deliberately modifying the structure of our economy so as to strengthen
the forces of growth and yet restrain instability.
Great opportunities as well as difficult problems face our nation.
Monopoly power, which is still being freely exercised despite all the
exhortation of recent years, can be curbed by moving toward price and
wage controls or, as many economists still hope, by regenerating com-
petition. Higher protective tariffs, import quotas, and "Buy American"
schemes can be embraced or, as many economists hope, avoided. A tax
structure that inhibits private investment and directs people's energy
into activities that contribute little to the nation's economic strength can
be retained or reformed. Costly farm surpluses can be further en-
couraged by government or discontinued. The problems posed by the
slums and the inefficient transportation of many of our cities can be
neglected or attacked with some zeal. The inadequacy of our unemploy-
ment insurance system can be ignored until the next recession or cor-
rected while there is opportunity for a judicious overhauling. In general,
our governmental authorities can deal with recessions by trusting to
improvisations of public spending, which often will not become effective
until economic recovery is already under way, or by providing in ad-
vance of any recession for fairly prompt and automatic adjustment of
income tax rates to a temporarily lower level of economic activity. The
coordination of governmental policies, which may make the difference
between success and failure in promoting our national objectives, can be
left largely to accidents of personal force and ingenuity or it can be made
systematic through an economic policy board under the chairmanship of
the President. These and other choices will have to be made by the
people of the United States; and economists-far more than any other
group-will in the end help to make them.


---Economics-1960-1-01.txt---
merely Adams' "not self-employed") ". . . is clearly much more symmetrical
than the typical Pareto curve" (p. 340). I then added: "On the other hand,
distinct skewness still appears. Can we explain it?" (p. 340). One lead, I felt,
lay in the fact that "the most noteworthy aspect of the usual income distribu-
tion is not that it has one long tail-but that it does not have two" (p. 343);
and I went on to suggest the vital role of credit rationing in truncating the
distribution.
This comment offers an occasion for noting that the original article did not
make explicit its limitation of reference to periods of reasonably full employ-
ment.
STANLEY LEBERGOTT*
* U.S. Bureau of the Budget.
Errata
There are two typographical errors in the presidential address of Dr. Arthur
F. Burns, "Progress Towards Economic Stability," published in the March
1960 number of the American Economic Review. The first one is on page 1,
line 15, where the word "understanding" should be "understating." The second
one is on page 3, line 2, where "proprietorship" should be "proprietorships."


---Economics-1961-0-03.txt---
Although it is obvious that people acquire useful skills and knowl-
edge, it is not obvious that these skills and knowledge are a form of
capital, that this capital is in substantial part a product of deliberate
investment, that it has grown in Western societies at a much faster rate
than conventional (nonhuman) capital, and that its growth may well be
the most distinctive feature of the economic system. It has been widely
observed that increases in national output have been large compared
with the increases of land, man-hours, and physical reproducible capi-
tal. Investment in human capital is probably the major explanation for
this difference.
Much of what we call consumption constitutes investment in hu-
man capital. Direct expenditures on education, health, and internal
migration to take advantage of better job opportunities are clear exam-
ples. Earnings foregone by mature students attending school and by
workers acquiring on-the-job training are equally clear examples. Yet
nowhere do these enter into our national accounts. The use of leisure
time to improve skills and knowledge is widespread and it too is un-
recorded. In these and similar ways the quality of human effort can be
greatly improved and its productivity enhanced. I shall contend that
such investment in human capital accounts for most of the impressive
rise in the real earnings per worker.
I shall comment, first, on the reasons why economists have shied away
from the explicit analysis of investment in human capital, and then, on
the capacity of such investment to explain many a puzzle about eco-
nomic growth. Mainly, however, I shall concentrate on the scope and
substance of human capital and its formation. In closing I shall con-
sider some social and policy implications.


---Economics-1961-0-04.txt---
I. Shying Away from Investment in Man
Economists have long known that people are an important part of the
wealth of nations. Measured by what labor contributes to output, the
productive capacity of human beings is now vastly larger than all other
forms of wealth taken together. What economists have not stressed is
the simple truth that people invest in themselves and that these invest-
ments are very large. Although economists are seldom timid in entering
on abstract analysis and are often proud of being impractical, they
have not been bold in coming to grips with this form of investment.
Whenever they come even close, they proceed gingerly as if they were
stepping into deep water. No doubt there are reasons for being wary.
Deep-seated moral and philosophical issues are ever present. Free men
are first and foremost the end to be served by economic endeavor; they
are not property or marketable assets. And not least, it has been all too
convenient in marginal productivity analysis to treat labor as if it were
a unique bundle of innate abilities that are wholly free of capital.
The mere thought of investment in human beings is offensive to some
among us.1 Our values and beliefs inhibit us from looking upon human
beings as capital goods, except in slavery, and this we abhor. We are
not unaffected by the long struggle to rid society of indentured service
and to evolve political and legal institutions to keep men free from
bondage. These are achievements that we prize highly. Hence, to treat
human beings as wealth that can be augmented by investment runs
counter to deeply held values. It seems to reduce man once again to a
mere material component, to something akin to property. And for man
to look upon himself as a capital good, even if it did not impair his
freedom, may seem to debase him. No less a person than J. S. Mill at
one time insisted that the people of a country should not be looked
upon as wealth because wealth existed only for the sake of people [15].
But surely Mill was wrong; there is nothing in the concept of human
wealth contrary to his idea that it exists only for the advantage of
people. By investing in themselves, people can enlarge the range of
choice available to them. It is one way free men can enhance their wel-
fare.
Among the few who have looked upon human beings as capital, there
are three distinguished names. The philosopher-economist Adam Smith
boldly included all of the acquired and useful abilities of all of the
inhabitants of a country as a part of capital. So did H. von Thiinen,
who then went on to argue that the concept of capital applied to man
did not degrade him or impair his freedom and dignity, but on the
contrary that the failure to apply the concept was especially pernicious
in wars; ". . . for here . . . one will sacrifice in a battle a hundred
Ihis paragraph draws on the introduction to my Teller Lecture [16].


---Economics-1961-0-05.txt---
human beings in the prime of their lives without a thought in order to
save one gun." The reason is that, ". . . the purchase of a cannon causes
an outlay of public funds, whereas human beings are to be had for
nothing by means of a mere conscription decree" [20]. Irving Fisher
also clearly and cogently presented an all-inclusive concept of capital
[6]. Yet the main stream of thought has held that it is neither ap-
propriate nor practical to apply the concept of capital to human beings.
Marshall [11], whose great prestige goes far to explain why this view
was accepted, held that while human beings are incontestably capital
from an abstract and mathematical point of view, it would be out
of touch with the market place to treat them as capital in practical
analyses. Investment in human beings has accordingly seldom been
incorporated in the formal core of economics, even though many
economists, including Marshall, have seen its relevance at one point or
another in what they have written.
The failure to treat human resources explicitly as a form of capital,
as a produced means of production, as the product of investment, has
fostered the retention of the classical notion of labor as a capacity to
do manual work requiring little knowledge and skill, a capacity with
which, according to this notion, laborers are endowed about equally.
This notion of labor was wrong in the classical period and it is patently
wrong now. Counting individuals who can and want to work and treat-
ing such a count as a measure of the quantity of an economic factor is
no more meaningful than it would be to count the number of all manner
of machines to determine their economic importance either as a stock
of capital or as a flow of productive services.
Laborers have become capitalists not from a diffusion of the owner-
ship of corporation stocks, as folklore would have it, but from the ac-
quisition of knowledge and skill that have economic value [9]. This
knowledge and skill are in great part the product of investment and,
combined with other human investment, predominantly account for the
productive superiority of the technically advanced countries. To omit
them in studying economic growth is like trying to explain Soviet ide-
ology without Marx.
II. Economic Growth from Human Capital
Many paradoxes and puzzles about our dynamic, growing economy
can be resolved once human investment is taken into account. Let me
begin by sketching some that are minor though not trivial.
When farm people take nonfarm jobs they earn substantially less
than industrial workers of the same race, age, and sex. Similarly non-
white urban males earn much less than white males even after allow-
ance is made for the effects of differences in unemployment, age, city


---Economics-1961-0-06.txt---
size and region [21]. Because these differentials in earnings correspond
closely to corresponding differentials in education, they strongly sug-
gest that the one is a consequence of the other. Negroes who operate
farms, whether as tenants or as owners, earn much less than whites on
comparable farms.2 Fortunately, crops and livestock are not vulnerable
to the blight of discrimination. The large differences in earnings seem
rather to reflect mainly the differences in health and education. Workers
in the South on the average earn appreciably less than in the North
or West and they also have on the average less education. Most migra-
tory farm workers earn very little indeed by comparison with other
workers. Many of them have virtually no schooling, are in poor health,
are unskilled, and have little ability to do useful work. To urge that
the differences in the amount of human investment may explain these
differences in earnings seems elementary. Of more recent vintage are
observations showing younger workers at a competitive advantage; for
example, young men entering the labor force are said to have an ad-
vantage over unemployed older workers in obtaining satisfactory jobs.
Most of.these young people possess twelve years of school, most of the
older workers six years or less. The observed advantage of these younger
workers may therefore result not from inflexibilities in social security or
in retirement programs, or from sociological preference of employers,
but from real differences in productivity connected with one form of hu-
man investment, i.e., education. And yet another example, the curve re-
lating income to age tends to be steeper for skilled than for unskilled
persons. Investment in on-the-job training seems a likely explanation,
as I shall note later.
Economic growth requires much internal migration of workers to ad-
just to changing job opportunities [10]. Young men and women move
more readily than older workers. Surely this makes economic sense
when one recognizes that the costs of such migration are a form of
human investment. Young people have more years ahead of them than
older workers during which they can realize on such an investment.
Hence it takes less of a wage differential to make it economically ad-
vantageous for them to move, or, to put it differently, young people can
expect a higher return on their investment in migration than older
people. This differential may explain selective migration without requir-
ing an appeal to sociological differences between young and old people.
The examples so far given are for investment in human beings that
yield a return over a long period. This is true equally of investment in
education, training, and migration of young people. Not all investments
in human beings are of this kind; some are more nearly akin to current
inputs as for example expenditures on food and shelter in some coun-
2 Based on unpublished preliminary results obtained by Joseph Willett in his Ph.D.
research at the University of Chicago.


---Economics-1961-0-07.txt---
tries where work is mainly the application of brute human force,
calling for energy and stamina, and where the intake of food is far
from enough to do a full day's work. On the "hungry" steppes and in
the teeming valleys of Asia, millions of adult males have so meager a
diet that they cannot do more than a few hours of hard work. To call
them underemployed does not seem pertinent. Under such circum-
stances it is certainly meaningful to treat food partly as consumption
and partly as a current "producer good," as some Indian economists
have done [3]. Let us not forget that Western economists during the
early decades of industrialization and even in the time of Marshall and
Pigou often connected additional food for workers with increases in
labor productivity.
Let me now pass on to three major perplexing questions closely con-
nected with the riddle of economic growth. First, consider the long-
period belhavior of the capital-income ratio. We were taught that a coun-
try which amassed more reproducible capital relative to its land and
labor would employ such capital in greater "depth" because of its grow-
ing abundance and cheapness. But apparently this is not what happens.
On the contrary, the estimates now available show that less of such
capital tends to be employed relative to income as economic growth pro-
ceeds. Are we to infer that the ratio of capital to income has no relevance
in explaining either poverty or opulence? Or that a rise of this ratio is
not a prerequisite to economic growth? These questions raise funda-
mental issues bearing on motives and preferences for holding wealth
as well as on the motives for particular investments and the stock of
capital thereby accumulated. For my purpose all that needs to be said
is that these estimates of capital-income ratios refer to only a part of
all capital. They exclude in particular, and most unfortunately, any
human capital. Yet human capital has surely been increasing at a rate
substantially greater than reproducible (nonhuman) capital. We can-
not, therefore, infer from these estimates that the stock of all capital
has been decreasing relative to income. On the contrary, if we accept the
not implausible assumption that the motives and preferences of people,
the technical opportunities open to them, and the uncertainty associated
with economic growth during particular periods were leading people to
maintain roughly a constant ratio between all capital and income, the
decline in the estimated capital-income ratio3 is simply a signal that
human capital has been increasing relatively not only to conventional
capital but also to income.
The bumper crop of estimates that show national income increas-
I leave aside here the difficulties inherent in identifying and measuring both the non-
human capital and the income entering into estimates of this ratio. There are index number  and aggregation problems aplenty, and not all improvements in the quality of this capital
have been accounted for, as I shall note later.


---Economics-1961-0-08.txt---
ing faster than national resources raises a second and not unrelated
puzzle. The income of the United States has been increasing at a much
higher rate than the combined amount of land, man-hours worked and
the stock of reproducible capital used to produce the income. More-
over, the discrepancy between the two rates has become larger from
one business cycle to the next during recent decades [5]. To call this
discrepancy a measure of "resource productivity" gives a name to our
ignorance but does not dispel it. If we accept these estimates, the con-
nections between national resources and national income have become
loose and tenuous over time. Unless this discrepancy can be resolved,
received theory of production applied to inputs and outputs as cur-
rently measured is a toy and not a tool for studying economic growth.
Two sets of forces probably account for the discrepancy, if we
neglect entirely the index number and aggregation problems that be-
devil all estimates of such global aggregates as total output and total
input. One is returns to scale; the second, the large improvements in
the quality of inputs that have occurred but have been omitted from
the input estimates. Our economy has undoubtedly been experiencing
increasing returns to scale at some points offset by decreasing returns
at others. If we can succeed in identifying and measuring the net gains,
they may turn out to have been substantial. The improvements in the
quality of inputs that have not been adequately allowed for are no
doubt partly in material (nonhuman) capital. My own conception,
however, is that both this defect and the omission of economies of
scale are minor sources of discrepancy between the rates of growth
of inputs and outputs compared to the improvements in human capac-
ity that have been omitted.
A small step takes us from these two puzzles raised by existing esti-
mates to a third which brings us to the heart of the matter, namely the
essentially unexplained large increase in real earnings of workers. Can
this be a windfall? Or a quasirent pending the adjustment in the supply
of labor? Or, a pure rent reflecting the fixed amount of labor? It seems
far more reasonable that it represents rather a return to the investment
that has been made in human beings. The observed growth in pro-
ductivity per unit of labor is simply a consequence of holding the unit
of labor constant over time although in fact this unit of labor has been
increasing as a result of a steadily growing amount of human capital
per worker. As I read our record, the human capital component has be-
come very large as a consequence of human investment.
Another aspect of the same basic question, which admits of the same
resolution, is the rapid postwar recovery of countries that had suffered
severe destruction of plant and equipment during the war. The toll
from bombing was all too visible in the factories laid flat, the railroad


---Economics-1961-0-09.txt---
yards, bridges, and harbors wrecked, and the cities in ruin. Structures,
equipment and inventories were all heaps of rubble. Not so visible, yet
large, was the toll from the wartime depletion of the physical plant
that escaped destruction by bombs. Economists were called upon to
assess the implications of these wartime losses for recovery. In retro-
spect, it is clear that they overestimated the prospective retarding
effects of these losses. Having had a small hand in this effort, I have
had a special reason for looking back and wondering why the judg-
ments that we formed soon after the war proved to be so far from the
mark. The explanation that now is clear is that we gave altogether too
much weight to nonhuman capital in making these assessments. We fell
into this error, I am convinced, because we did not have a concept of all
capital and, therefore, failed to take account of human capital and
the important part that it plays in production in a modern economy.
Let me close this section with a comment on poor countries, for
which there are virtually no solid estimates. I have been impressed by
repeatedly expressed judgments, especially by those who have a re-
sponsibility in making capital available to poor countries, about the
low rate at which these countries can absorb additional capital. New
capital from outside can be put to good use, it is said, only when it
is added "slowly and gradually." But this experience is at variance
with the widely held impression that countries are poor fundamentally
because they are starved for capital and that additional capital is truly
the key to their more rapid economic growth. The reconciliation is
again, I believe, to be found in emphasis on particular forms of capital.
The new capital available to these countries from outside as a rule
goes into the formation of structures, equipment and sometimes also
into inventories. But it is generally not available for additional invest-
ment in man. Consequently, human capabilities do not stay abreast of
physical capital, and they do become limiting factors in economic
growth. It should come as no surprise, therefore, that the absorption
rate of capital to augment only particular nonhuman resources is
necessarily low. The Horvat [8] formulation of the optimum rate of
investment which treats knowledge and skill as a critical investment
variable in determining the rate of economic growth is both relevant
and important.
III. Scope and Substance of These Investments
What are human investments? Can they be distinguished from con-
sumption? Is it at all feasible to identify and measure them? What do
they contribute to income? Granted that they seem amorphous com-
pared to brick and mortar, and hard to get at compared to the in-
vestment accounts of corporations, they assuredly are not a fragment;


---Economics-1961-0-10.txt---
they are rather like the contents of Pandora's box, full of difficulties
and hope.
Human resources obviously have both quantitative and qualitative
dimensions. The number of people, the proportion who enter upon use-
ful work, and hours worked are essentially quantitative characteristics.
To make my task tolerably manageable, I shall neglect these and con-
sider only such quality components as skill, knowledge, and similar
attributes that affect particular human capabilities to do productive
work. In so far as expenditures to enhance such capabilities also in-
crease the value productivity of human effort (labor), they will yield
a positive rate of return.4
How can we estimate the magnitude of human investment? The
practice followed in connection with physical capital goods is to esti-
mate the magnitude of capital formation by expenditures made to pro-
duce the capital goods. This practice would suffice also for the forma-
tion of human capital. However, for human capital there is an additional
problem that is less pressing for physical capital goods: how to distin-
guish between expenditures for consumption and for investment. This
distinction bristles with both conceptual and practical difficulties. We
can think of three classes of expenditures: expenditures that satisfy
consumer preferences and in no way enhance the capabilities under
discussion-these represent pure consumption; expenditures that en-
hance capabilities and do not satisfy any preferences underlying con-
sumption-these represent pure investment; and expenditures that
have both effects. Most relevant activities clearly are in the third class,
partly consumption and partly investment, which is why the task of
identifying each component is so formidable and why the measurement
of capital formation by expenditures is less useful for human invest-
ment than for investment in physical goods. In principle there is an
alternative method for estimating human investment, namely by its
yield rather than by its cost. While any capability produced by human
investment becomes a part of the human agent and hence cannot be
sold; it is nevertheless "in touch with the market place" by affecting
the wages and salaries the human agent can earn. The resulting in-
crease in earnings is the yield on the investment.5
Despite the difficulty of exact measurement at this stage of our
understanding of human investment, many insights can be gained by
examining some of the more important activities that improve human
'Even so, our observed return can be either negative, zero or positive because our  observations are drawn from a world where there is uncertainty and imperfect knowledge
and where there are windfall gains and losses and mistakes aplenty.
'In principle, the value of the investment can be determined by discounting the addi-  tional future earnings it yields just as the value of a physical capital good can be deter-
mined by discounting its income stream.


---Economics-1961-0-11.txt---
capabilities. I shall concentrate on five major categories: (1) health
facilities and services, broadly conceived to include all expenditures
that affect the life expectancy, strength and stamina, and the vigor
and vitality of a people; (2) on-the-job training, including old-style
apprenticeship organized by firms; (3) formally organized education
at the elementary, secondary, and higher levels; (4) study programs
for adults that are not organized by firms, including extension pro-
grams notably in agriculture; (5) migration of individuals and families
to adjust to changing job opportunities. Except for education, not
much is known about these activities that is germane here. I shall re-
frain from commenting on study programs for adults, although in agri-
culture the extension services of the several states play an important
role in transmitting new knowledge and in developing skills of farmers
[ 17] . Nor shall I elaborate further on internal migration related to eco-
nomic growth.
Health activities have both quantity and quality implications. Such
speculations as economists have engaged in about the effects of im-
provements in health,6 has been predominantly in connection with
population growth, which is to say with quantity. But surely health
measures also enhance the quality of human resources. So also may ad-
ditional food and better shelter, especially in underdeveloped countries.
The change in the role of food as people become richer sheds light
on one of the conceptual problems already referred to. I have! pointed
out that extra food in some poor countries has the attribute of a "pro-
ducer good." This attribute of food, however, diminishes as the con-
sumption of food rises, and there comes a point at which any further
increase in food becomes pure consumption.! Clothing, housing and
perhaps medical services may be similar.
My comment about on-the-job training will consist of a conjecture
on the amount of such training, a note on the decline of apprenticeship,
and then a useful economic theorem on who bears the costs of such
training. Surprisingly little is known about on-the-job training in
modern industry. About all that can be said is that the expansion of
education has not eliminated it. It seems likely, however, that some
of the training formerly undertaken by firms has been discontinued
and other training programs have been instituted to adjust both to the
'Health economics is in its infancy; there are two medical journals with "economics" in
their titles, two bureaus for economic research in private associations (one in the American
Medical and the other in the American Dental Association), and not a few studies and
papers by outside scholars. Selma Mushkin's survey is very useful with its pertinent eco-
nomic insights, though she may have underestimated somewhat the influence of the
economic behavior of people in striving for health [14].
7For instance, the income elasticity of the demand for food continues to be positive
even after the point is reached where additional food no longer has the attribute of a
"producer good."


---Economics-1961-0-12.txt---
rise in the education of workers and to changes in the demands for new
skills. The amount invested annually in such training can only be a
guess. H. F. Clark places it near to equal to the amount spent on formal
education.8 Even if it were only one-half as large, it would represent
currently an annual gross investment of about $15 billion. Elsewhere,
too, it is thought to be important. For example, some observers have
been impressed by the amount of such training under way in plants in
the Soviet Union.9 Meanwhile, apprenticeship has all but disappeared,
partly because it is now inefficient and partly because schools now per-
form many of its functions. Its disappearance has been hastened no
doubt by the difficulty of enforcing apprenticeship agreements. Legally
they have come to smack of indentured service. The underlying eco-
nomic factors and behavior are clear enough. The apprentice is prepared
to serve during the initial period when his productivity is less than the
cost of his keep and of his training. Later, however, unless he is legally
restrained, he will seek other employment when his productivity begins
to exceed the cost of keep and training, which is the period during which
a master would expect to recoup on his earlier outlay.
To study on-the-job training Gary Becker [ 1 ] advances the theorem
that in competitive markets employees pay all the costs of their training
and none of these costs are ultimately borne by the firm. Becker points
out several implications. The notion that expenditures on training by a
firm generate external economies for other firms is not consistent with
this theorem. The theorem also indicates one force favoring the transfer
from on-the-job training to attending school. Since on-the-job training
reduces the net earnings of workers at the beginning and raises them
later on, this theorem also provides an explanation for the "steeper
slope of the curve relating income to age," for skilled than unskilled
workers, referred to earlier."0 What all this adds up to is that the stage
is set to undertake meaningful economic studies of on-the-job training.
Happily we reach firmer ground in regard to education. Investment
in education has risen at a rapid rate and by itself may well account for
a substantial part of the otherwise unexplained rise in earnings. I shall
do no more than summarize some preliminary results about the total
costs of education including income foregone by students, the apparent
relation of these costs to consumer income and to alternative invest-
'Based on comments made by Harold F. Clark at the Merrill Center for Economics,
summer 1959; also, see [4].
'Based on observations made by a team of U. S. economists of which I was a member,
see Saturday Rev., Jan. 21, 1961.
" Becker has also noted still another implication arising out of the fact that the income
and capital investment aspects of on-the-job training are tied together, which gives rise
to "permanent" and "transitory" income effects that may have substantial explanatory
value.


---Economics-1961-0-13.txt---
ments, the rise of the stock of education in the labor force, returns to
education, and the contribution that the increase in the stock of educa-
tion may have made to earnings and to national income.
It is not difficult to estimate the conventional costs of education con-
sisting of the costs of the services of teachers, librarians, administrators,
of maintaining and operating the educational plant, and interest on the
capital embodied in the educational plant. It is far more difficult to esti-
mate another component of total cost, the income foregone by students.
Yet this component should be included and it is far from negligible. In
the United States, for example, well over half of the costs of higher edu-
cation consists of income foregone by students. As early as 1900, this
income foregone accounted for about one-fourth of the total costs of
elementary, secondary and higher education. By 1956, it represented
over two-fifths of all costs. The rising significance of foregone income
has been a major factor in the marked upward trend in the total real
costs of education which, measured in current prices, increased from
$400 million in 1900 to $28.7 billion in 1956 [18]. The percentage rise in
educational costs was about three and a half times as large as in con-
sumer income, which would imply a high income elasticity of the demand
for education, if education were regarded as pure consumption.1" Educa-
tional costs also rose about three and a half times as rapidly as did the
gross formation of physical capital in dollars. If we were to treat educa-
tion as pure investment this result would suggest that the returns to
education were relatively more attractive than those to nonhuman
capital."2
Much schooling is acquired by persons who are not treated as in-
come earners in most economic analysis, particularly, of course,
women. To analyze the effect of growth in schooling on earnings, it is
therefore necessary to distinguish between the stock of education in
the population and the amount in the labor force. Years of school com-
pleted are far from satisfactory as a measure because of the marked
increases that have taken place in the number of days of school attend-
ance of enrolled students and because much more of the education of
workers consists of high school and higher education than formerly.
My preliminary estimates suggest that the stock of education in the
labor force rose about eight and a half times between 1900 and 1956,
whereas the stock of reproducible capital rose four and a half times,
both in 1956 prices. These estimates are, of course, subject to many
"' Had other things stayed constant this suggests an income elasticity of 3.5. Among the
things that did change, the prices of educational services rose relative to other consumer
prices, perhaps offset in part by improvements in the quality of educational services.
2 This of course assumes among other things that the relationship between gross and
net have not changed or have changed in the same proportion. Estimates are from my
essay, "Education and Economic Growth" [191.


---Economics-1961-0-14.txt---
qualifications.'3 Nevertheless, both the magnitude and the rate of in-
crease of this form of human capital have been such that they could be
an important key to the riddle of economic growth."4
The exciting work under way is on the return to education. In spite
of the flood of high school and college graduates, the return has not
become trivial. Even the lower limits of the estimates show that the re-
turn to such education has been in the neighborhood of the return to
nonhuman capital. This is what most of these estimates show when they
treat as costs all of the public and private expenditures on education
and also the income foregone while attending school, and when they
treat all of these costs as investment, allocating none to consumption.'5
But surely a part of these costs are consumption in the sense that edu-
cation creates a form of consumer capital'6 which has the attribute of
" From [19, Sec. 4]. These estimates of the stock of education are tentative and in-
complete. They are incomplete in that they do not take into account fully the increases
in the average life of this form of human capital arising out of the fact that relatively  more of this education is held by younger people in the labor force than was true in earlier
years; and, they are incomplete because no adjustment has been made for the improve-
ments in education over time, increasing the quality of a year of school in ways other than
those related to changes in the proportions represented by elementary, high school and
higher education. Even so the stock of this form of human capital rose 8.5 times between
1900 and 1956 while the stock of reproducible nonhuman capital increased only 4.5 times,
both in constant 1956 prices.
14 In value terms this stock of education was only 22 per cent as large as the stock of
reproducible physical capital in 1900, whereas in 1956 it already had become 42 per cent
as large.
15 Several comments are called for here. (1) The return to high school education appears
to have declined substantially between the late 'thirties and early 'fifties and since then
has leveled off, perhaps even risen somewhat, indicating a rate of return toward the end
of the 'fifties about as high as that to higher education. (2) The return to college education
seems to have risen somewhat since the late 'thirties in spite of the rapid influx of college-
trained individuals into the labor force. (3) Becker's estimates based on the difference in
income between high school and college graduates based on urban males adjusted for
ability, race, unemployment and mortality show a return of 9 per cent to total college
costs including both earnings foregone and conventional college costs, public and private
and with none of these costs allocated to consumption (see his paper given at the Ameri-
can Economic Association meeting, December 1959 [2]). (4) The returns to this educa-
tion in the case of nonwhite urban males, of rural males, and of females in the labor force
may have been somewhat lower (see Becker r2]). (5) Mly own estimates, admittedly less
complete than those of Becker and thus subject to additional qualifications, based mainly
on lifetime income estimates of Herman P. Miller [12], lead to a return of about 11 per
cent to both high school and college education as of 1958. See [19, Sec. 51.
Whether the consumption component in education will ultimately dominate, in the
sense that the investment component in education will diminish as these expenditures in-
crease and a point will be reached where additional expenditures for education will be
pure consumption (a zero return on however small a part one might treat as an invest-
ment), is an interesting speculation. This may come to pass, as it has in the case of food
and shelter, but that eventuality appears very remote presently in view of the prevailing
investment value of education and the new demands for knowledge and skill inherent in
the nature of our technical and economic progress.
"The returns on this consumer capital will not appear in the wages and salaries that
people earn.


---Economics-1961-0-15.txt---
improving the taste and the quality of consumption of students through-
out the rest of their lives. If one were to allocate a substantial fraction
of the total costs of this education to consumption, say one-half, this
would, of course, doubleAthe observed rate of return to what would then
become the investment component in education that enhances the pro-
ductivity of man.
Fortunately, the problem of allocating the costs of education in the
labor force between consumption, and investment does not arise to
plague us when we turn to the con'tribution that education makes to
earnings and to national income because a change in allocation only
alters the rate of return, not the total return. I noted at the outset that
the unexplained increases in U. S. national income have been especially
large in recent decades. On one set of assumptions, the unexplained part
amounts to nearly three-fifths of the total increase between 1929 and
1956.17 How much of this unexplained increase in income represents a
return to education in the labor force? A lower limit suggests that about
three-tenths of it, and an upper limit does not rule out that more than
one-half of it came from this source."8 These estimates also imply that
between 36 and 70 per cent of the hitherto unexplained rise in the earn-
ings of labor is explained by returns to the additional education of
workers.
IV. A Concluding Note on Policy
One proceeds at his own peril in discussing social implications and
policy. The conventional hedge is to camouflagp one's values and to
wear the mantle of academic innocence. Let me proceed unprotected!
1. Our tax laws everywhere discriminate afgainst human capital. Al-
though the stock of such capital has become large and even though it is
obvious that human capital, like other forms of reproducible capital,
depreciates, becomes obsolete, and entails maintenance, our tax laws
are all but blind on these matters.
2. Human capital deteriorates when it is idle because unemployment
impairs the skills that workers have acquired. Losses in earnings can
be cushioned by appropriate payments but these do not keep idleness
from taking its toll from human capital.
3. There are many hindrances to the free choice of professions.
17 Real income doubled, rising from $150 to $302 billion in 1956 prices. Eighty-nine
billions of the increase in real income is taken to be unexplained, or about 59 per cent
of the total increase. The stock of education in the labor force rose by $355 billion of
which $69 billion is here allocated to the growth in the labor force to keep the per-worker
stock of education constant, and $286 billion represents the increase in the level of this
stock. See [19, Sec. 61 for an elaboration of the method and the relevant estimates.
iS In per cent, the lower estimate came out to 29 per cent and the upper estimate to 56  per cent.


---Economics-1961-0-16.txt---
Racial discrimination and religious discrimination are still widespread.
Professional associations and governmental bodies also hinder entry;
for example, into medicine. Such purposeful interference keeps the
investment in this form of human capital substantially below its opti-
mum [7].
4. It is indeed elementary to stress the greater imperfections of the
capital market in providing funds for investment in human beings
than for investment in physical goods. Much could be done to reduce
these imperfections by reforms in tax and banking laws and by changes
in banking practices. Long-term private and public loans to students
are warranted.
5. Internal migration, notably the movement of farm people into
tindustry, made necessary by the dynamics of our economic progress,
requires substantial investments. In general, families in which the hus-
bands and wives are already in the late thirties cannot afford to make
these investments because the remaining payoff period for them is too
short. Yet society would gain if more of them would pull stakes and
move because, in addition to the increase in productivity currently,
the children of these families would be better located for employment
when they were ready to enter the labor market. The case for making
some of these investments on public account is by no means weak. Our
farm programs have failed miserably these many years in not coming
to grips with the costs and returns from off-farm migration.
6. The low earnings of particular people have long been a matter of
public concern. Policy all too frequently concentrates only on the effects,
ignoring the causes. No small part of the low earnings of many Negroes,
Puerto Ricans, Mexican nationals, indigenous migratory farm workers,
poor farm people and some of our older workers, reflects the failure to
have invested in their health and education. Past mistakes are, of course,
bygones, but for the sake of the next generation we can ill afford to con-
tinue making the same mistakes over again.
7. Is there a substantial underinvestment in human beings other
than in these depressed groups? [2] This is an important question for
economists. The evidence at hand is fragmentary. Nor will the answer be
easily won. There undoubtedly have been overinvestments in some
skills, for example, too many locomotive firemen and engineers, too
many people trained to be farmers, and too many agricultural econo-
mists! Our schools are not free of loafers and some students lack the
necessary talents. Nevertheless, underinvestment in knowledge and
skill, relative to the amounts invested in nonhuman capital would
appear to be the rule and not the exception for a number of reasons. The
strong and increasing demands for this knowledge and skill in laborers
are of fairly recent origin and it takes time to respond to them. In re-


---Economics-1961-0-17.txt---
sponding to these demands, we are heavily dependent upon cultural and
political processes, and these are slow and the lags are long compared to
the behavior of markets serving the formation of nonhuman capital.
Xhere the capital market does serve human investments, it is subject to
more imperfections than in financing physical capital. I have already
stressed the fact that our tax laws discriminate in favor of nonhuman
capital. Then, too, many individuals face serious uncertainty in assess-
ing their innate talents when it comes to investing in themselves, espe-
cially through higher education. Nor is it easy either for public deci,
sions or private behavior to untangle and properly assess the consump-
tion and the investment components. The fact that the return to high
school and to higher education has been about as large as the return to
conventional forms of capital when all of the costs of such education in-
cluding income foregone by students are allocated to the investment
component, creates a strong presumption that there has been underin-
vestment since, surely, much education is cultural and in that sense it is
consumption. It is no wonder, in view of these circumstances, that there
should be substantial underinvestment in human beings, even though
we take pride, and properly so, in the support that we have given to
education and to other activities that contribute to such investments.
8. Should the returns from public investment in human capital
accrue to the individuals in whom it is made?"9 The policy issues im-
plicit in this question run deep and they are full of perplexities pertain-
ing both to resource allocation and to welfare. Physical capital that is
formed by public investment is not transferred as a rule to particular
individuals as a gift. It would greatly simplify the allocative process
if public investment in human capital were placed on the same footing.
What then is the logical basis for treating public investment in human
capital differently? Presumably it turns on ideas about welfare. A
strong welfare goal of our community is to reduce the unequal distri-
bution of personal income among individuals and families. Our com-
munity has relied heavily on progressive income and inheritance taxa-
tion. Given public revenue from these sources, it may well be true that
public investment in human capital, notably that entering into general
education, is an effective and efficient set of expenditures for attaining
this goal. Let me stress, however, that the state of knowledge about
these issues is woefully meager.
9. My last policy comment is on assistance to underdeveloped coun-
tries to help them achieve economic growth. Here, even more than in
domestic affairs, investment in human beings is likely to be underrated
191 am indebted to Milton Friedman for bringing this issue to the fore in his com-
ments on an early draft of this paper. See preface of [7] and also Jacob Mincer's pioneer-
ing paper [13].


---Economics-1961-0-18.txt---
and neglected. It is inherent in the intellectual climate in which leaders
and spokesmen of many of these countries find themselves. Our export
of growth doctrines has contributed. These typically assign the stellar
role to the formation of nonhuman capital, and take as an obvious
fact the superabundance of human resources. Steel mills are the real
symbol of industrialization. After all, the early industrialization of
England did not depend on investments in the labor force. New funds
and agencies are being authorized to transfer capital for physical goods
to these countries. The World Bank and our Export-Import Bank
have already had much experience. Then, too, measures have been
taken to pave the way for the investment of more private (nonhuman)
capital abroad. This one-sided effort is under way in spite of the fact
that the knowledge and skills required to take on and use efficiently
the superior techniques of production, the most valuable resource that
we could make available to them, is in very short supply in these
underdeveloped countries. Some growth of course can be had from the
increase in more conventional capital even though the labor that is
available is lacking both in skill and knowledge. But the rate of growth
will be seriously limited. It simply is not possible to have the fruits
of a modern agriculture and the abundance of modern industry without
making large investments in human beings.
Truly, the most distinctive feature of our economic system is the
growth in human capital. Without it there would be only hard, manual
work and poverty except for those who have income from property.
There is an early morning scene in Faulkner's Intruder in the Dust, of
a poor, solitary cultivator at work in a field. Let me paraphrase that line,
"The man without skills and knowledge leaning terrifically against
nothing."
REFERENCES
1. G. S. BECKER, preliminary draft of study undertaken for Nat. Bur. Econ.
Research. New York 1960.
2. , "Underinvestment in College Education?," Proc., Am. Econ.
Rev., May 1960, 50, 346-54.
3. P. R. BRAHMANAND AND C. N. VAKIL, Planninzg for an Expanding Econ-
omy. Bombay 1956.
4. H. F. CLARK, "Potentialities of Educational Establishments Outside the
Conventional Structure of Higher Education," Financing Higher Educa-
tion, 1960-70, D. M. Keezer, ed. New York 1959.
5. SOLOMON FABRICANT, Basic Facts on Productivity Change, Nat. Bur.
Econ. Research, Occas. Paper 63. New York 1959. Table 5.
6. IRVING FISHER, The Nature of Capital and Income. New York 1906.
7. MILTON FRIEDMAN AND SIMON KUZNETS, Income from Independent Pro-
fessional Practice, Nat. Bur. Econ. Research. New York 1945.


---Economics-1961-0-19.txt---
8. B. HORVAT, "The Optimum Rate of Investment," Econ. Jour., Dec. 1958,
68, 747-67.
9. H. G. JOHNSON, "The Political Economy of Opulence," Can. Jour. Econl.
and Pol. Sci., Nev. 1960, 26, 552-64.
10. SIMON KUZNETS, Income and Wealth in the United States. Cambridge,
England 1952. Sec. IV, Distribution by Industrial Origin.
11. ALFRED MARSHALL, Principles of Economics, 8th ed. London 1930. App.
E, pp. 787-88.
12. H. P. MIILLER, "Annual and Lifetime Income in Relation to Education:
1939-1959," Amn. Econ. Rev., Dec. 1960, 50, 962-86.
13. JACOB MINCER, "Investment in Human Capital and Personal Income
Distribution," Jour. Pol. Econ., Aug. 1958, 66, 281-302.
14. S. J. MUSIIKIN, "Toward a Definition of Health Economics," Public
Health Reports, U. S. Dept. of Health, Educ. and Welfare, Sept. 1958,
73, 785-93.
15. J. S. NIc-UOLSON, "The Living Capital of the United Kingdom," Econ.
Jour., Mar. 1891, 1, 95; see J. S. Mill, Principles of Political Economy,
ed. W. J. Ashley, London 1909, p. 8.
16. T. W. SCHULTZ, "Investment in Man: An Economist's View," Soc. Serv.
Rev., June 1959, 33, 109-1 7.
17. , "Agriculture and the Application of Knowledge," A Look to the
Future, W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek, 1956, 54-78.
18. ," Capital Formation by Education," Jour. Pol. Econ., Dec. 1960,
68, Tables 3 through 7.
19. , "Education and Economic Growth," Social Forces Influencing
American Education, H. G. Richey, ed. Chicago 1961.
20. H. VON THUNEN, Der isolierte Staat, 3rd ed., Vol. 2, Pt. 2, 1875, transl.
by B. F. Hoselitz, reproduced by the Comp. Educ. Center, Univ. Chicago,
pp. 140-52.
21. MORTON ZEMAN, A Quantitative Analysis of White-Nonwhite Income
Differentials in the United States. Unpublished doctoral dissertation, Univ.
Chicago, 1955.


---Economics-1962-0-03.txt---
"For there are, ill the present times, two opinions: not, as in former ages the true and the
false; but the outside and the inside."
J. M. Keynes (1921)
"The proper study of Mankind is man." So said the infallible poet.
And past experience at these annual gatherings of the sons and daugh-
ters of Adam Smith suggests that the popular subject of discussion
among economists is not so much economics as economists. Usually the
annual presidential address is an exception-an exception that does
not always improve upon the rule.
According to our annals, an expiring president of this occult body
begins with two choices. He may, on the one hand, give an address
that summarizes his lifework or his basic contribution to some im-
portant field of scholarship. Thus, my old teacher, Paul H. Douglas,
just as he was about to come out of his academic cocoon and emerge
as a senatorial butterfly, gave his 1947 address on the Laws of Pro-
duction, summarizing his decades of work measuring statistical pro-
duction functions.
I am afraid this choice is not open to me. My own scholarship has
c,overed a great variety of fields. And many of them involve questions
like welfare economics and factor-price equalization; turnpike theo-
rems and osculating envelopes; nonsubstitutability relations in Min-
kowski-Ricardo-Leontief-Metzler matrices of Mosak-Hicks type; or
balanced-budget multipliers under conditions of balanced uncertainty
in locally impacted topological spaces and molar equivalences. My
friends warn me that such topics are suitable merely for captive audi-
ences in search of a degree-and even then not after dark.
This leaves me still with several possible choices. For one thing, I
can always talk about methodology. But although my children think
of me as a remnant of "the olden days," to myself I seem just re-


---Economics-1962-0-04.txt---
cently to have become emeritus from the category of enfant terrible;
and the only thing more terrible than the sight of an immature youth
is the sight of a half-baked elder statesman. So, that part of methodol-
ogy which consists of passing on good advice concerning the scholarly
pitfalls to avoid and the proper paths to climb, I had better avoid.
But there is another possibility: I could give a sermon tonight on
the use and misuse of mathematics in economics. This subject is the
only commodity in the world that seems not subject to Gossen's law
of diminishing marginal utility. It was only yesterday that three suc-
cessive presidential addresses touched upon this delicious topic; and
the strongest of those attacks on mathematics led to so resonant a re-
sponse with this annual audience as to give rise to a standing ovation
for the speaker.
Thomas Hardy remarked, "If the Archbishop of Canterbury says
that God exists, that is all in the day's business; but if he says God
does not exist, there you have something really significant." What a
Daniel-come-to-Judgment I would be, if I, the lamb that strayed
fustus' and mustus' from the fold, were to testify before God and this
company that mathematics had all been a horrible mistake; that right
along, it has all been there in Marshall, Books III and V; and that the
most one needs for life as an economist is a strong voice, and a com-
pass and ruler.
I wish I could be obliging. Yet even if my lips could be brought to
utter the comforting words, like Galileo I would hear myself whisper-
ing inside, "But mathematics does indeed help."
I am left then finally with one choice. This evening I shall talk less
about technical economics than about economists. Where do we mem-
bers "of the most agreeable of the moral sciences" fit in the great stream
of ideas and ideologies? On this solemn occasion I shall eschew gossip,
leaving that to the corridors and lobbies. But I shall unavoidably have
to deal with personalities and names if I am to explore the interrela-
tions between professional economic thought and the general history
of ideas.
I. Within the Looking Glass
As my old teacher Schumpeter used to say, "We are all girls here
together." Hence, mine can be the view of an insider looking in, and
an insider looking out.
I begin with two books. One is a work of scholarship; the other is,
and you will excuse the distinction, merely a textbook. Compare The
History of Economic Analysis by Joseph Schumpeter with The History
of Economic Doctrines of Gide and Rist, which students used to study
in my day when preparing for general examinations. I dare say that


---Economics-1962-0-05.txt---
all the names mentioned by the latter authors can be found in Schum-
peter's index. But how different is the emphasis: reading Gide and
Rist you would be forgiven for thinking that Robert Owen was almost
as important as Robert Malthus; that Fourier and Saint-Simon were
much more important than Walras and Pareto. The A. Young in their
index is, of course, Arthur Young, not Allyn Young.
Now turn to Schumpeter. Everything is there; no name left out.
But now it is Marshall, Walras, Wicksell and such people who steal
the stage. Of course Adam Smith is given his due. But what a due!
He is rather patronizingly dismissed as a synthesizer who happened to
write the right book at the right time: his analytic contributions are
certainly minimized.
How can we account for these differences? By the fact that Schum-
peter is writing some 40 years after Gide and Rist? Only in the smallest
part, I think. By 1913 Wicksell, Wicksteed, and Wieser had done
their great work, but only Wieser gets a mention from Gide and Rist
-one mention. The treatment of Walras is even more indicative. Wal-
ras is indeed mentioned by them; but yet not primarily for his work
as a theorist so much as for his views on nationalization of land, free
trade, and the State-views which Pareto and Schumpeter thought of
as simply silly, like Irving Fisher's food fads and teetotalism. To ver-
ify that I am not having sport by picking on a particular set of au-
thors, turn from Gide and Rist to Alexander Gray's brief book, the
busy student's friend, to see how Walras fares there. In Gray, Leon
Walras is "crowded out" by his father Auguste and is referred to as
the "younger Walras," which is a little like referring to Maynard
Keynes as the "younger Keynes."
No one can really deny that we have two different sets of standards
here. When I began graduate study at Harvard in 1935, Schumpeter
rather shocked me by saying in a lecture that of the four greatest econ-
omists in the world, three were French. (I had thought the non-
Frenchman was English, probably Adam Smith; but after looking into
Schumpeter's later book for the purpose of checking, I think my infer-
ence must have been incorrect and that he then meant Alfred Marshall
rather than Smith.) And who were the Frenchmen?
Of course, one was Leon Walras, whom Schumpeter had no hesita-
tion in calling the greatest economist of all time, by virtue of his first
formulation of general equilibrium. Today there can be little doubt
that most of the literary and mathematical economic theory appearing
in our professional journals is more an offspring of Walras than of any-
one else (and I stress the adjective literary). The comparison that
Lagrange made of Newton is worth repeating in this connection: As-
suredly Newton was the greatest man of science, but also the luckiest.


---Economics-1962-0-06.txt---
For there is but one system of the world and Newton was the one who
found it. Similarly, there is but one grand concept of general equi-
librium and it was Walras who had the insight (and luck) to find it.
I ought to add that this rating by Schumpeter deserves more credit,
coming in 1935, than it would coming today. For it had predictive
value as to what was to happen to our professional writings. Back in
1935, Marshall was still propped up on his throne and in large parts of
the world even the zealots of the mathematical method tended to look
upon Walras merely as the predecessor of the great Pareto. The bourse
for professional reputations shows changing price fluctuations: if at
one time Allred Marshall was overpraised and quoted at an inflated
price which left little of consumer's surplus to the buyer, he had to
pay for this by later being sold at an overdiscount-as will become
evident.
Since I ought not to leave you waiting for the other shoes to drop,
I hasten to name the other Frenchmen. One is Cournot, a choice that
will not seem too surprising. Certainly there is a professional compe-
tence about the 1838 Cournot, in the field of partial equilibrium, mo-
nopoly and oligopoly, that the modern literature only reattained by
1930. (Think only of the rediscovery in this century of the concept
of marginal revenue!) I do not know that the name of Schumpeter's
final giant will seem so obvious a choice. It is Frangois Quesnay, who
is deemed to be great on account of his cryptic Tableau and anticipa-
tion of the circular flow of economic life. Back in the days before
Leontief and the resurrection of Karl Marx's Volume 2 model of circu-
lar reproduction, I thought this last choice even more far-fetched than
I do today.
II. The Pecking-Order of Analysts
I need not labor the point farther. Within economics, we economists
rate writers of the past in a quite different order than does the outside
world. And, as far as economic analysis itself is concerned, the present
generation of economists gives a quite different ranking than did ear-
lier generations of economists.'
Now I am not really concerned here with the history of pure theory
and the changing fortunes of different writers. A critic can rightly
argue that Gide and Rist were writing a history of economic doctriines,
while Schumpeter was writing a history of economic analysis; and
hence I ought not to be surprised if there turns out to be a consider-
able difference in emphasis. Who would want to deny that Cournot,
1 There is a great deal of evidence that this is more than the view of the avant garde
and more than a passing fad. One straw in the wind would be to examine the successive
revisions since 1939 of a book that did not begin with any prejudice in favor of economic
analytics, Eric Roll, A History of Economic Thought, 3d ed., Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1956.


---Economics-1962-0-07.txt---
writing in 1838, had an analytical power and freshness that is breath-
taking? But who in his right mind could argue that Cournot had been
a great force on the history of ideas: what Paris salon preoccupied
itself with sellers of mineral water? Except through possible indirect
influences of his teachings, Cournot's impact on ideology must surely
have been negligible.
I quite agree. In many ways the history of a subject's technical
analysis is easier to write precisely because it need not involve the
determination of social influencings.2 Tonight we do not want to linger
on analytics, except perhaps to draw the obvious moral that, if econo-
mists spend more and more of their time on highly technical mathe-
matics and statistics, they must not be surprised if the intelligent man
of affairs comes to ignore this part of their activities. It is true that
Voltaire and Madame du Chatelet, his great and good friend, wrote
profusely on Newton's universal law of gravitation; but this really
amounted to vulgarization of that subject, gross vulgarization on the
part of Voltaire and neat vulgarization on the part of that gifted lady.
While we should not minimize the importance of vulgarization-I
mean communication-we must not blink the fact that this is an area
where Gresham's Law operates in its most remorseless fashion: vulgar
vulgarizatioin drives out subtle, just as strong ideology outsells weak.
The split, between "the inside look" of a subject in terms of the
logic and experience of its professional development and its implica-
tions for the mian-in-the-street or the academician down the campus,
is well recognized. No one gets a Nobel Prize for an essay on the re-
lationship of quantum mechanics to free will and God; but one who
has already received such a prize will get a better hearing for his
random or systematic thoughts on the topic. Nor, these days, do you
get appointed to chairs of economics by virtue of your social elo-
2If the history of science is still generally in a crude form, that is primarily because  scholars have just recently begun to take it seriously. In the case of mathematics, there is
a most ludicrous ignorance of the true sequence of contributions: if a formula, such as  Lagrange's interpolation formula, is attributed by name to a person, the betting is good
that small research will show it appeared in earlier writinrgs. What I have in mind here
is not the statement that there is nothing new under the sun and all knowledge is a
repetition of previously known knowledge: on the contrary, such a statement is the
reverse of the truth; mathematical knowledge has been cumulative and, with enough  research and luck. we might hope to clean up the false history of the subject. The situa-  tion in mathematics is especially simple if one takes the view that the objects of mathe-  matical research are theorems and that most importance attaches to the date of their first  rigorous proof. Thus, it is meaningful to say that the "strong ergodic theorem" goes back
to G. D. Birkhoff in 1931, and that J. v. Neumann deserves the credit for two-person  zero-sum game theory. (But if one is also interested in conjecture, heuristics and partial
insight, the matter is not so simple. Some modern mathematicians, one feels, will rename  Fermat's Last Theorem to Schwartz's Theorem if the first man to prove it happens to be
named Schwartz.) In economics, datings are harder: thus I cannot tell you who first
disproved "the labor theory of value," much less who originated it.


---Economics-1962-0-08.txt---
quence; indeed, until academic tenure has come, you are best advised
not to write for Harpers or the Manchester Guardian (to say nothing
of the National Review or the New Republic) lest you be indicted for
superficiality.
Good writing itself can be suspect. (I interject that if good literary
style is indeed a sin, it is not a sin that is very widespread among our
economics brotherhood.) John Stuart Mill tells us in his remarkable
autobiography that his father, James Mill, thought poetry was over-
rated; but that since poetry was overrated, young John ought to try
his hand at it. I believe it was Yale's Tjalling Koopmans, himself a
creative economist blessed with clarity of style, who advanced the
austere argument that exceptionally fine writing is a biasing factor
which might bring to an argument more attention and credence than
it really deserved. There is something to this: but no one should be
taken in by the false corollary that the intrinsic worth of an argument
is enhanced by virtue of its being phrased obscurely. Having said this,
one must add grudgingly that, while obscurity may not add to the
intrinsic worth of an argument, it has often been a contributory in-
gredient to fame. How many Marxians have read Das Kapital-I
mean read it through? Bernard Shaw once claimed that he was the
only man in England, including H. A/I. Hyndman and contemporary
Marxian leaders, who had read the book. Shaw himself was observed
at the British Museum by Harcourt3 in the act of reading Marx (in
the French translation, of course); so at least part of Shaw's claim
may be true. But Shaw was sitting in the British Miuseum with a copy
of Capital stretched before him and beside it a copy of the score of
Lohengrin; one can guess on which he could have earned the higher
exam grade.
This brings me to mention one of our members who is far away to-
night toiling on a distant shore. I refer of course to J. Kenneth Gal-
braith and have in mind The Affluent Society. To compare this book
with The Theory of the Leisure Class would be in some of our common
rooms, to damn it; in some, to praise it. Gibbon tells us how he found
his Decline and Fall on every boudoir table soon after its publication.
When we economists think how often in recent years people have been
asking us, " What do you think of The Affluent Society?"-and how
embarrassing the question has been to so many of us busy beavers-
we can appreciate that this work stands as good a chance as any of be-
ing read and remembered twenty years from now.
Yet always members of a guild have their defenses against the man
who ventures away from home. "It was all in Keynes's 1930 Saturday
'This gives Sir William Harcourt a second iclaim to fame, beyond that of his famous
one-tenth truth: "We are all socialists now."


---Economics-1962-0-09.txt---
Evening Post article, 'Economic Possibilities for Our Grandchildren.'"
"Two-thirds of the title came from Tawney's The Acquisitive Society."
"The point about the need to spend more these days on public rather
than private wants was already made eloquently by Alvin Hansen and
others; in any case it involves a value judgment not a scientific find-
ing." "Harvard professors may have incomes high enough to satiate
them, but most people do not." "So what's the matter with big auto
fins? Didn't you ever hear of Freud? And how about Jeremy Ben-
tham's dictum concerning the equality of pleasures, 'Pushpin is as
good as poetry?'" "Are commercially created wants different, or less
satisfying, or less worthy than natural wants, whatever those may be?"
"The book's style is superficially attractive but its message is not
profound."
I am afraid people in the boudoir, today or twenty years from now,
will not seek the benefit of our professional reactions. Within the body
of economics itself, The Affluent Society will find a place that is pro-
portionate to the new predictions about economic regularities it may
suggest. But whatever the later verdict about the operational meaning
of its propositions, we can no more recall it or wipe out half a line of
it than we can-by professional exlegesis-expunge Henry George's
Progress and Poverty from the historical record.
III. Political Econornists: Ourselves to Know
Leaving aside how our own profession rates and ranks the craftsmen
of its trade, I now want to close in on the differences between our
view of ideologies and Weltanschauungen and that of the intelligent
man of affairs. Who do we think were the great political economists
as against just great economists?
Adam Smith. Going back no earlier than Adam Smith, we can let
Smith stand for the classical tradition. And, in my telescope, he stands
on a pinnacle. While I think Smith is underrated as an economic
theorist, it must be admitted that his impact as a political economist
does not rest upon his having improved upon theories of his friend
David Hume; nor upon his having anticipated the various refinements
of Malthus, West, Ricardo, Torrens, and John Stuart Mill.
Here is a case where the inside view and the outside view are one.
The intelligent man of affairs, and even Macaulay's schoolboy, were
profoundly influenced by Smith's attacks on mercantilism and state
interference and by his spirited championing of laissez faire. To be
sure, the amateur never appreciates the nuances of Smith's position:
e.g., his skepticism about the businessman's passion for tough compe-
tition; his definite role for limited government; his general pragma-
tism rather than dogmatism.


---Economics-1962-0-10.txt---
Still, it is significant that the great critics of the classical tradition
generally chose to controvert the Wealth of Nations rather than the
writings of later members of his school.
David Ricardo. In time Ricardo came to be the whipping boy for
continental romantics and historicists. Yet there is not much evidence
that they had to read him closely in order to find fault with his ab-
stract methodology. I must confess that I find Ricardo hard to give
semester-type grades to. He is par excellence an economist's econo-
mist. A sweet man, Ricardo is certainly one of the luckiest that ever
lived. And here I have not so much in mind his success in speculating;
although he was no slouch in that department, as some facts from his
biography illustrate.4
Ricardo was lucky in being on the spot when the Napoleonic Wars
were causing the value of money to misbehave in the -most interesting
fashion. He was lucky to have James Mill as taskmaster and press
agent. He was lucky in having been deprived of higher education, so
that his resulting written expositions had the clumsiness necessary to
give that ingredient of obscurity so conducive to a reputation for great
profundity. Finally, and I hope it comes as no anticlimax, Ricardo was
lucky in being profound.
Cut off for marryin,g outside his faith with a few thousand dollars, within twenty
years Ricardo had become a millionaire a few times over, the equivalent in this present
day of taxes, higher prices and higher general real incomes, to tens of millions of dollars.
The Duke of Wellington may have regarded the battle of Waterloo as "a damned near
close-run thing," but David Ricardo urged before the battle that his friend Robert Malthus
go the limit in holding British government bonds; and Malthus, a parson with small
means and a convex-from-above utility function, lived to reproach himself for not having
followed that advice. Retiring young from business to devote himself to leisure, study,
politics, and being a gentleman, Ricardo astutely realized that his numerous children were
not chips off the old block in financial acumen; so, and this is purely my conjecture,
being convinced by his studies that land rent tends to rise as capital and labor progres-
sively grow, Ricardo arranged to buy self-sufficient gentry estates for his offspring, suc-
ceeding so well in his purpose as to keep his descendants out of shirtsleeves until the
end of the century and, at the same time, conferring upon them the bonus of being
absorbed into county society. At the urging of his friends, Ricardo indulged in conspicuous
consumption by buying his way into Parliament. (He did this by invoking the later
doctrine of "opportunity cost": i.e., he lent ?20,000 interest-free to an Irish holder of a
rotten borough, one which Ricardo never bothered to visit.)
Ricardo's parliamentary career was something of an anticlimax. He was not a gripping
speaker, and the build-up of his reputation was a grave handicap. It is interesting that
Ricardo was a genuinely disinterested man and generally favored measures that were
against the interest of landlords. When once accused of having a special interest in some
proposal, he candidly replied that his interests were so diverse that he himself could not
tell on which side the balance of his Hicksian income effects would fall, thus showing
himself to be a master of quadratic programming of the type needed for optimal Marko-
witz portfolio balancing; and little wonder, since in 1817 Ricardo's comparative cost
theory had involved him in linear programming. One feels he was a natural at trading
in, and arbitraging, Lagrangean multipliers and other dual-price variables. See Volume 10
of the Sraffa edition of Ricardo's work for most of the facts from which this account
has been fabricated.


---Economics-1962-0-11.txt---
Still, when I once heard George J. Stigler say that Malthus was the
most overrated of economists, I heard myself replying: "That's funny.
I think David Ricardo is the most overrated of economists." Probably
this conversation tells more about Stigler and me than about Ricardo
and Malthus. What I had in mind was this: Ricardo was a keen rea-
soner and almost always comes out to be logical in the end, if you
accept his implicit and explicit definitions and assumptions. But he
makes unnecessarily rough weather of the matters he deals with, and
the reader is inclined to think him miraculous for being able to get
out of the holes he has dug for himself by his mode of attack and ex-
position. Analytically, his theory of rent is excellent but not clearly
better than or earlier than the contemporaneous theories of rent of
Sir Edward West and Malthus. Ricardo did have a rigorously handled
general equilibrium model of primitive type; but its dynamics merely
elaborate on what is already in the population theory of Malthus and
Smith, and ought not today to be regarded as very "magnificent."
His greatest tour de force was the theory of comparative advantage;
and though it would be simply irrelevant to point out that Isaac Ger-
vaise had developed similar notions in the preceding century, one has
to take into account that Colonel Torrens, a mere mortal, had also
developed pretty much the same analysis at pretty much the same
time. Moreover, in most of the debates that Ricardo's work gave rise
to, the points of his critics were well taken, not so much in proving
that Ricardo's reasoning was wrong in terms of its assumptions, as in
pointing out that his conclusions were apt to be misunderstood and
were of limited significance. Instead of regarding it as a scandal that
so much ink has had to be split over Ricardo's flirtations and retreats
from a labor theory of value, his admirers think this makes him a sem-
inal thinker.5 In short, the notion of Keynes that "Ricardo's mind
was the greatest that ever addressed itself to economics" does not
agree with my assessment of his high I.Q. or creativeness in relation to
that of other economists.
Ricardo's name was certainly used as a rallying cry for the school
that favored freer trade in England. But Smith had already made the
needed points; if exaggeration is what was needed, Herbert Spencers
and Bastiats can usually be found who are unencumbered by the sub-
tleties of refined economic analysis. Moreover, detailed researchers will
more and more reveal that the Ricardian School provided the back-
ground for early Victorian thinking but did not, in a detailed fashion
See my two papers on Ricardian systems, which elaborate on my views and give a
physiocratic interpretation, "A Modern Treatment of the Ricardian Economy," Quart.
Jour. Econ., I, Feb. 1959, 73, 1-35; II, May 1959, 73, 217-31; also my paper on related
Marxian models, "Wages and Interest: A Modern Dissection of Marxian Economic
Models," Am. Econ. Rev., Dec. 1957, 47, 884-912.


---Economics-1962-0-12.txt---
satisfactory to the historian of direct political development, have impor-
tant influences upon such legislative events as the repeal of the Corn
Laws. Indeed, Ricardo was subtle enough to muck up the simple-
minded case for harmonious free trade.
Jeremy Bentham, a friend of James Mill and Ricardo, was a char-
acter who would have been unbelievable if he had appeared in a book.
(He once seriously asked James Mill for his eldest son. James thought
that an excessive demand on friendship, but did lease him John to help
clean out the Augean stables of Bentham manuscripts; this was but
one of the feats of Hercules that John accomplished with distinction
and at incredibly early ages.)
Bentham's influence on modern law and institutions has always been
recognized by historians as having been great: the nineteenth century
where legislation is concerned is truly Bentham's shadow writ large, as
Dicey has said. Crane Brinton once quipped: "The New Deal had a
good deal of old Bentham in it."6 And I have dared to suggest that the
logic of Bentham's position would in later times have gone beyond his
fortuitous individualism, so that his thought is really congenial to that
of Fabians like Sidney Webb. Bentham, though not an economist's econ-
omist nor even primarily an economist, had I am sure an influence far
greater than that of Ricardo.
Have I now not proved too much? Why then has Ricardo had the
good press with posterity if my strictures are at all near the mark? I
think the answer depends upon a different kind of luck. David Ricardo
happens to be the darling both of the liberal economists who followed
in his direct line and of the Marxian critics of capitalism. Like me,
you may not agree with Ricardo's famous letter to Trower which says,
"Political economy . . . should rather be called an enquiry into the
laws which determine the division of the produce of industry amongst
the classes who concur in its formation." But you can perceive how
Ricardo's laconic and unsparing remarks about distribution would
stimulate the so-called Ricardian socialists who regarded property in-
comes as exploitation of labor. And once Karl Marx took him up as
an object of worthy study, Ricardo was, so to speak, in on both sides
of the street. Having Piero Sraffa as an editor merely capped Ricardo's
good luck.
John Stuart Mill. I pass by Nassau Senior and the other classical
writers to mention Mill briefly. Mill was modest; Marshall was not.
The world takes people too much at their word. The result is that
Marshall's claims to analytical originality are received too seriously;
6C. C. Brinton, Ideas of Men: The Story of Western Thought, London 1951, p. 392.
Incidentally, Brinton's index has between Rhodes, Cecil and Richards, I. A. no Ricardo,
David.


---Economics-1962-0-13.txt---
and Mill's forging of the general-equilibriurn concept of demand and
supply schedules, even before the 1838 date of Cournot's definitive
partial-equilibrium formulation, is ignored by all but the true gourmets
of economic theory, who recognize it as an analytical contribution of
the first magnitude.
John Stuart Mill, son of a dogmatic father, was himself eclectic and
had an engaging ability to change his mind when new facts or argu-
ments became available or merely from rethinking old attitudes! It
is almost fatal to be flexible, eclectic, and prolific if you want your
name to go down in the history books: get known for one idea, how-
ever farfetched it may be-such as that the rate of interest has to be
zero in the stationary state or that land is the source of all value-and
you are sure to get at least a paragraph in the history books for it.
Also, Mill had what Nietzsche once referred to as an offensively clear
style.
Yet so great was Mill as a thinker and reflector that he was able
to overcome these handicaps. His views on liberty will, even in the
post-Freud world, never go out of date and can perhaps be summarized
in the words of Mrs. Pat Campbell, Bernard Shaw's pen-mistress:
People should be allowed to do anything they like-provided only
they don't scare the horses in the street.
Mill is truly a transitional figure. Shaw shows this in one of his
wittiest plays, You Never Can Tell. A typical Shavian New Woman
returns from the West Indies after an absence of some 20 years to find
that all her revolutionary Millian notions have become old-hat, super-
seded by new Fabian notions. The same conflict between the eight-
eenth and twentieth century went on in Mill's own mind: it was fa-
'Sweden's Gustav Cassel, whom the public regarded as about the world's leading
economist in the 1920's and who might have become a truly outstanding scholar if his
temperament had been different, is shown by the following story to be a good opposite
to Mill. H. C. Sonne, the distinguished merchant banker and chairman of the National
Planning Association, has told how Cassel visited at Sonne's family home in Denmark in
the days around the First World War. A guest happened to mention that some scholar
had just made a fresh study of the relationship between the price level and gold supply
and had come up with conclusions strongly at variance with the famous Cassel thesis.
When asked what he intended to do about it, Cassel replied as follows. "I have a son-in-
law whom I have put through Divinity School at some considerable expense. Now that
he has graduated and qualified for his diploma, he comes to me and says that he has lost
his faith and asks what to do. My advice to him was simple: 'Just carry on as if nothing
had happened'."
Relevant too is a conversation I had last month in London after I had given the Stamp
Memorial Lecture in the University of London for 1961. In that lecture I discussed,
among other things, some of the problems of economic forecasting and stressed the need
for scientific validation and the desirability of each forecaster's going back ruthlessly to
review ex post his ex ante predictions. "A great mistake," I was told by one of the best
forecasters in English academic life. "It is fatal ever to read what you have earlier
written. It breaks your nerve as a forecaster." His lips were smiling but his eyes looked  serious.


---Economics-1962-0-14.txt---
ther James against friend Harriet with John advancing two steps and go-
ing back one. It is ironical that evolutionary socialism in England and
elsewhere finds itself today backing up from its post-Benthamite in-
sisterice on nationalization of the means of production to something
like the society dimly envisaged by Mill. No wonder Karl Marx hated
Mill and denounced him as a vulgar bourgeois economist. Marx could
recognize the enemy when he saw him. (Curiously, the well-read Mill
either never heard of Marx or never thought him worth mentioning-
this despite Mill's interest in the Revolution of 1848, the Communist
Manifesto by Marx and Engels of that date, and Mill's survival be-
yond the 1867 date of Capital Vol. 1.)8
Karl Marx. From the viewpoint of pure economic theory, Karl Marx
can be regarded as a minor post-Ricardian. Unknowingly I once de-
lighted a southern university audience: my description of Marx as a
not uninteresting precursor (in Volume 2 of Capital) of Leontief's
input-output analysis of circular interdependence apparently had in-
furiated the local village Marxist. Also, a case can be made out that
Marx independently developed certain vague apprehensions of under-
consuinptionist arguments like those of the General Theory; but on
my report card no one earns too high a grade for such a performance,
since almost everyone who is born into this world alive experiences
at some time vague intimations that there is a hole somewhere in the
circular flow of purchasing power and production. This seems to come
on the same chromosome as the gene that makes people believe in
Say's Law; and Marx's bitter criticisms of Rodbertus for being an
underconsumptionist shows us that he is no exception.
As long as I am being big about admitting small merits in Marx, I
might mention a couple of technical suggestions he made about busi-
ness cycles that are not without some interest: Marx did formulate
a vague notion of 10-year replacement cycles in textile equipment as
the determinant of cyclical periodicity-which is an anticipation of
various modern "echo" theories. He also somewhere mentioned the
possibility of some kind of harmonic analysis of economic cycles by
mathematics, which with much charity can be construed as pointing
toward modern periodogram analysis and Yule-Frisch stochastic dy-
namics. A much more important insight involved the tying up of tech-
nological change and capital accumulation with business cycles, which
pointed ahead to the work of Tugan-Baranowsky (himself a Marxian),
Spiethoff, Schumpeter, Robertson, Cassel, Wicksell, and Hansen.
What can be gold in the field of fluctuations can be dirt in the con-
text of pure economic theory. Marx claimed in Volume 1 that there
was some interesting economics involved in a labor theory of value,
8 Cf. A. L. Harris, Economics and Social Reforms, New York 1958.


---Economics-1962-0-15.txt---
and some believe his greatest fame in pure economics lies in his at-
tempted analysis of "surplus value." Although he promised to clear up
the contradiction between "price" and "value" in later volumes, nei-
ther he nor Engels ever made good this claim. On this topic the good-
humored and fair criticisms of Wicksteed and Bdhm-Bawerk have
never been successfully rebutted: the contradictions and muddles in
Marx's mind must not be confused with the contradictions and mud-
dles in the real world.
Marx, like any man of keen intellect, liked a good problem; but he
did not labor over a labor theory of value in order to give us moderns
scope to use matrix theory on the "transformation" problem. He
wanted to have a theory of exploitation, and a basis for his prediction
that capitalism would in some sense impoverish the workers and pave
the way for revolution into a new stage of society. As the optimism of
the American economist Henry Carey shows, a labor theory of value
when combined with technological change is, on all but the most ex-
treme assumptions, going to lead to a great increase in real wages and
standards of living. So the element of exploitation had to be worked
hard. Here Marx might have emphasized the monopoly elements of
distribution: how wicked capitalists, possessed of the nonlabor tools
that are essential to high production, allegedly gang up on the workers
and make them work for a minimum. Or, were it not for his amazing
hatred toward Malthus and his theory of population, Marx might have
kept wages dismal by virtue of biological conditions of labor supply.
The monopoly explanation he did not use, perhaps because he wanted
to let capitalism choose its own weapons and assume ruthless compe-
tition, and still be able to show it up. Marx tried to demonstrate the
same dramatic minimum character of real wages by means of his con-
cept of the "reserve army of the unemployed."
Here is the real Achilles' heel of the Marxian theory of distribution
and its implied prophecies of immiserization of the working classes.
Under perfect competition, technical change will raise real wages un-
less the changes are so labor-saving as to raise the rate of maintainable
profit immensely; Joan Robilnson and others have pointed out how
contradictory is Marx's notion that both profit rates and real wages
can fall once Marx jettisons Ricardo's emphasis on the scarcity of land
and the law of diminishing returns. Marx simply has no statical theory
of the reserve army. If an appeal is made to a vague dynamic theory
of technological displacement or recruitment from the country, close
analysis will suggest that Marx (like Mill) was a very bad econometri-
cian of his times, not realizing how much real wages in Western Eur-
ope had been raised by new techniques and eqtuipment; and he was a
bad theorist because his kind of model would almost certainly lead


---Economics-1962-0-16.txt---
to shifts in schedules that would raise labor's wages tremendously, in
a way more consistent with the 1848 Communist Manifesto's paeans
of praise for the capitalistic system than with his elaborated
writings.9
In brief, technical change was gold in giving Marx cyclical insights,
and dirt in giving him secular insights or an understanding of evolving
equilibrium states. I should warn you that this is my opinion. and that
I have always been surprised that I should be a virtual monopolist
with respect to this vital analysis.
So far I have been talking about Marx as an economist. And I have
been doing my best, subject to truth, to find some merit in him. (You
may recall Emerson's neighbor in Concord: when he died the minister
tried to find something to say at the funeral eulogy and ended up with,
"Well, he was good at laying fires.") Even this represents a resurrec-
tion of Marx's reputation. Keynes, for example, was much more typi-
cal of our professional attitudes toward Marxismn when he dismissed
it all as "turbid" nonsense. (In view of the tendency of the radical
right-for whom all Chinese look alike-to equate Keynesianism with
Marxism, this ironical fact is worth nothing; and also its converse,
since there is nothing communists deplore more than the notion that
capitalism can be kept breathing healthily by the Keynesian palliatives
of fiscal and monetary policy.)
Technical economics has little to do with Karl Marx's important
role in the history of human thought. It is true that he and his fol-
lowers felt that their brand of socialism differed from the sentimental
brands of the past in that Marxist socialism was scientifically based
and, therefore, had about it an inevitability and a special correctness.
I need not labor the point before this group that the "science" involved
was not that body of information about commercial and productive
activity and those methods of analyzing the behavior relations which
we would call economics. Political economy in our sense of the word
was the mere cap of Karl Marx's iceberg. Marx's bold economic or
materialistic theory of history, his political theories of the class struig-
gle, his transmutations of Hegelian philosophy have an importance for
the historian of "ideas" that far transcends his facade of economics.
Finally, one must never make the fatal mistake in the history of
ideas of requiring of a notion that it be "true." For that discipline,
the slogan must be, "The customer is always right." Its objects are
what men have believed; and if truth has been left out, so much the
9If migration from the country kept wages down to a city minimum, then the average
wage and living standard of country-curn-city would be raised in accordance with the
optilmiization desired by a technocrat-unless, agaiii, Malthusianism is admitted back into
the rural hovel.


---Economics-1962-0-17.txt---
worse for truth, except for the curiously-undifficult task of explaining
why truth does not sell more successfully than anything else. Marx
has certainly had more customers than any other one aspiring econo-
mist. A billion people think his ideas are important; and for the his-
torian of thought that fact makes them important, in the same way
that he would have to regard as diminished in importance the subject
of Christianity, were it conceivable that it had been the religion merely
of a transitory small group who once occupied the present country of
Jordan or the state of New Mexico.
Alfred Marshall. What killed Mill for economists was not the social-
ism that killed it for Shaw's no-longer-New Woman. The marginalist
school of Jevons-Walras-Menger perpetrated the murder. The roster of
neoclassical economists would include the names of Bohm-Bawerk
from Austria, J. B. Clark from the United States, Pareto from Italy,
Wicksteed from England, and Wicksell from Sweden. But, for all that
I have said earlier about his overvaluation in the market for reputa-
tions, few will doubt that Alfred Marshall of Cambridge is the proto-
type as political economist for this group. Marshall may now be old hat,
but in his day he was some headpiece.
Marshall had strong social sympathies. At the same time he realized
the harms that precipitate reform may bring. He was the prophet of
moderation. If you graft Keynesian models of income determination
on his thought and update his Victorianisms, you come close to the
median member of this Association. His pupils filled, Foxwell could
say by 1888, half the chairs of political economy in the United King-
dom; his influence permeated the other half and, methodologically
speaking, today we are all Marshallians in the same sense that we are
all higher primates.
But what has been Marshall's role in the history of ideas, the pano-
rama of human thought? Never has he had one-hundredth the notice
of, say, Henry George. I remember talking to the aged Frank Taussig
at a Harvard Society of Fellows dinner before the war. Taussig quoted
in despair a recent remark of John Dewey that Henry George was the
greatest economist America had ever produced. George was the whip-
ping boy for the economists just before my time; but within my time
as a high school student in the Middle West, you could still find
vestigial single-taxers, the old principal of my high school being one
and my civics teacher another. George was not original in attacking
incomes that come from land; as Foxwell said long ago, nationalizers
of land we have always with us. This is understandable from the
Hume-Ricardo recognition of rent as a price-determined (rather than
price-determining) surplus to a factor in inelastic supply; but, as I
have recorded elsewhere, my implicit belief that George gave a good


---Economics-1962-0-18.txt---
statement of Ricardian rent theory will not stand up after a search
through Progress and Poverty for suitable quotations to put in an
anthology. While the single-tax movement is recognizable today as
being adverse to socialism, Henry George's attack on the inequality
of property ownership in land was influential in turning many people
toward socialism: thus Shaw tells us he became a socialist after hear-
ing Henry George speak in London.'"
Let us leave aside impact on the hoi polloi. What was Marshall's
influence over his long life on the educated man of affairs? For years
I looked for every trace I could find in books to show that someone
other than a professional economist or student had read Marshall.
I realize Marshall himself thought he was writing for the business-
man; but anyone who looks at the Principles will realize that no busi-
nessmen in good Queen Victoria's time or since would be likely to find
it attractive. (Actually Marshall's literary style is excellent, his graphs
are in footnotes, and his rather awkward mathematics is buried in
special notes at the end; but all this was to no avail.) I was able to
come up essentially with only two bits of evidence, one negative and
one positive. Pollock in his letters to Justice Holmes urged him to read
Marshall; Holmes, who was a man of the most catholic interests, re-
plied that he had tried it and it was not the dish for him. On the posi-
tive side, C.C.N.Y.'s great philosopher, Mlorris Cohen, reported some-
where that his inclination to be an eclectic in philosophy had received
inspiration from Alfred Marshall's eclecticism in economics.
To be sure, Marshall taught at a leading world institution where
half the English upper classes received their instruction. But actually
he taught at Cambridge little more than 20 years, not very much
longer say, than, I have taught at M.I.T. Sixty was a generous number
for those who attended his popular lectures, and that was the begin-
ning attendance not the final. As I know from personal conversations
with Alfred North Whitehead, Marshall's contemporaries at Cam-
bridge did not like him as a man ("He was a popish man who treated
Mary Marshall very badly." "A second class mind?"); and one gets
"Later Shaw went successively from Marxism to Jevonsism with a Fabian twist. Philip  Wicksteed's conversion of Shaw away from Marxism is one of the most amusing and
incredible incidents in the history of thought: for once a rational argument changed, or
seemed to change, someone's mind.
It must have been on that same trip to England that Henry George debated Alfred
Marshall in Oxford: little David beat Goliath, if we can believe the record; in part per-  haps because Marshall was a home-boy, and the well-to-do undergraduates of those days  started out hostile to George; there is also the fact gleaned from Henry George's biog-
raphy that he slept miserably on that trip and the night before the debate. Playing the
parlor game of Charles Lamb and William Hazlitt as to which characters in history one
would like to meet, I would plunk for being present when Alfred Marshall debated
Henry George.


---Economics-1962-0-19.txt---
the impression from autobiographies of such contemporaries as
J. J. Thomson, the discoverer of the electron and Nobel Prize winner,
that they had no great opinion of the economics being offered at that
time in Cambridge.
IV. We Happy Few
If then Marshall and neoclassical writers have had influence upon
the affairs of men, and I think they have had pronounced influence,
we must regard these influencings as being indirect rather than direct.
For a long time John Maynard Keynes was known for one famous
quotation, the casual remark: "In the long run we are all dead." Now
that Keynes himself is dead, he is best known for a different quotation:
. . . the ideas of economists and political philosophers, both when they
are right and when they are wrong, are more powerlul than is commonly
understood. Indeed the world is ruled by little else. Practical men, who
believe themselves to be quite exempt from any intellectual influences,
are usually the slaves of some defunct economist. Madmen in authority,
who hear voices in the air, are distilling their frenzy from some academic
scribbler of a few years back. I am sure that the power of vested in-
terests is vastly exaggerated compared with the gradual encroachment
of ideas. Not, indeed, immediately, but after a certain interval; for in
the field of economic and political philosophy there are not many who
are influenced by new theories after they are twenty-five or thirty years
of age, so that the ideas which civil servants and politicians and even
agitators apply to current events are not likely to be the newest. But,
soon or late, it is ideas, not vested interests, which are dangerous for
good or evil.
This is fine writing. And no doubt it is flattering to our egos. But
is it really true? Keynes did not specify what academic scribblers he
had in mind, and I am not sure how easy it would have been for him
to do so. (Thus, when we see a politician favoring protective tariffs
or a balanced budget, do we have to look for any profound analysis
from some earlier thinker or can we not simply reflect that most
people generate such notions almost unthinkingly? Yet, even if that
is so, what are we to conclude in the case where we observe a politician
favoring free trade or deficit-financing? The issue is certainly not a
simple one.)
The leaders of this world may seem to be led around through the
nose by their economist advisers. But who is pulling and who is push-
ing? And note this: he who picks his doctor from an array of com-
peting doctors is in a real sense his own doctor. the Prince often
gets to hear what he wants to hear.
Where does that leave us then as economists? It leaves us where


---Economics-1962-0-20.txt---
we ought to be. Our map of the world differs from that of the layman.
Perhaps our map will never be a best seller. But a discipline like eco-
nomics has a logic and validity of its own. We believe in our map
because we cannot help doing so. In Frank Ramsey's beautiful quota-
tion from William Blake:
"Truth can never be told so as to be understood and not be believed."
Ours is an uncertain truth and economic scholars are humble about
its precision-but our humbleness is built out of knowledge, not out of
ignorance.
Not for us is the limelight and the applause. But that doesn't mean
the game is not worth the candle or that we do not in the end win
the game. In the long run, the economic scholar works for the only
coin worth having-our own applause."1
"1Lest I be misunderstood, I elaborate. This is not a plea for "Art for its own sake,"
"Logical elegance for the sake of elegance." It is not a plea for leaving the real-world
problems of political economy to noneconomists. It is not a plea for short-run popularity
with members of a narrow in-group. Rather it is a plea for calling shots as they really
appear to be (on reflection and after weighing all evidences), even when this means losing
popularity with the great audience of men and running against "the spirit of the times."


---Economics-1963-0-03.txt---
The question I propose to consider is whether or to what extent the
current relations between government and various interest groups in
the United States prevent, or at least handicap, the attainment of sta-
bility and growth. That this question is both serious and difficult re-
quires no argument. It is now six years since we have experienced a
level of unemployment as low as 4 per cent of the labor force. During
this period the growth of national income has been substantially below
the long-term trend. During this same period nearly all of the ad-
vanced countries of Western Europe have established an employment
record much better than ours and most of them have attained a growth
rate which, though it may not persist, is currently at least double the
U.S. rate. Are the relations between government, business, and labor
in these countries more conducive to stability and growth and, if so, is
there something we could learn from them?
Stabilization, of course, must be interpreted within the context of a
continuous increase in the labor force and the employment of capital.
It is a necessary but not sufficient condition to the attainment of what-
ever is considered to be a feasible and adequate growth rate. The
movement from a relatively high to a relatively satisfactory level of
unemployment is not a once-and-for-all step towards higher national
income but a preliminary condition to a growth rate that is probably
somewhat higher than is possible with substantial slack in the econ-
omy. Obviously stabilization policy does not encompass the whole of
the growth problem. Denison has made us familiar with some of the
steps that would need to be taken if we seek to raise the full employ-
ment growth rate [2]. The prospects for growth can also, be affected
by the choice of routes toward full employment. I am not, however,


---Economics-1963-0-04.txt---
concerned here with an examination of the full range of growth con-
siderations. I link stabilization with growth policy because there is in
fact a connection. The investment, pricing, and innovation practices of
firms operating at high levels of capacity would appear to be more
conducive to growth in the economy as a whole than policies adapted
to substantial slack. But it is only in this sense that I am here con-
cerned with growth problems.
The relations of special groups to government as they affect stabili-
zation and growth policies are usually discussed under the headings of
"interests" and "ideologies." Are there objective economic interests
represented by particular groups having sufficient political power to
influence public action which impede or prevent effective stabilization
or growth policies? Are there casts of thought or opinion motivated
(subconsciously) by interests, and permitted to survive by ignorance,
that effectively handicap sensible action? Keynes held firm views on
these questions and in a famous phrase asserted that "it is ideas, not
vested interests, which are dangerous for good and evil." On the other
hand he painted a picture of the role of government in a mature so-
ciety together with the "euthanasia of the rentier" that was not cal-
culated to appeal to their interests as conceived by all groups. My
colleague, J. K. Galbraith, has written in the same vein and has suc-
ceeded in antagonizing a good part of the profession by describing as
"conventional wisdom" the orthodox ideas he conceived as impedi-
ments to progress. I suppose that the opposite of conventional wisdom
is enlightened wisdom which, if we possessed it, would certainly help
in the solution of the problems before us. But, in addition to interests
and ideologies, I should like to introduce another range of considera-
tions that needs to be taken into account. I refer to sheer ignorance.
When one considers the outcome, during the last year or two, of
short-term forecasts undertaken by some of the most respected of our
colleagues both in and out of government it is difficult to resist the
conclusion that there are some things about the functioning of the
economy that we do not yet know. Let me illustrate this point with
another example. What would be the probable effect on the U.S. bal-
ance of payments if we attempted by appropriate fiscal and monetary
measures to attain a 4 per cent unemployment rate by, say, July 1,
1964? It is certainly possible to say something about what would be
involved in sectoral growth rates and to proceed from this to a reason-
able estimate of the effect on commodity imports. One view, held in
respectable quarters, is that such a development would bring with it
an increase in gross national product of about $30 billion (over and
above the growth that would be expected if the percentage of unem-
ployment did not change) and an increase in commodity imports of


---Economics-1963-0-05.txt---
perhaps $1 billion. This adverse effect on the balance of payments
would certainly be offset to some extent by a decrease in the flow of
long-term investment capital abroad though this is much more difficult
to estimate.
The difficulties are compounded when one attempts to estimate the
effect of the proposed action on export earnings and on the flow of
short-term funds. How will expansion of output affect the competitive
position of U.S. exporters? Clearly much depends on what happens
to wage rates, wage costs, and wage-price relationships. During the
period 1955-57 when unemployment averaged 4.3 per cent the price
level increased by 2X2 per cent a year. On the other hand there were
special influences at work, particularly in the durable goods area,
that may make this period an inappropriate guide to future prospects.
If some significant general rise in wage rates does take place and if
prices are adjusted to this increase, the extent of the adverse effects
on export earnings will depend, among other things, on what, in the
meantime, happens to prices in the principal export markets. Clearly
this is an area in which estimates will be subject to a sizeable margin
of error. Finally, how will the Swiss bankers and their friends in Wall
Street react to the particular combination of fiscal and monetary poli-
cies deemed necessary to attain a 4 per cent level of unemployment?
Will short-term funds move out of the United States and will there be
a large conversion of dollars into gold?
These difficulties and uncertainties are mentioned not to convey the
impression that there is no solution to the problem but to suggest that
there are several solutions, each one of wlhich may be supported by in-
telligent and honorable men not obviously influenced either by interest
or by dogma. It is certainly possible to support with strong arguments
the position that the balance of payments comes first and that until
confidence in the dollar has been restored it would be unwise to under-
take any very significantly expansionary monetary or fiscal policy. It
is also possible for sensible men to espouse the opposite position; that
we can, by a proper combination of fiscal and monetary measures,
move within a reasonable period of time to a position of full employ-
ment without inflicting on our balance of payments a strain that no
practical expansion of international liquidity can manage.
This matter of ignorance is introduced into the discussion because
it modifies quite substantially the significance to be attached to "in-
terests" and "ideologies" in relation to stabilization and growth poli-
cies and because it has a bearing, I believe, on the questions whether
and how a more satisfactory relationship between government and
special groups may be established. It is possible to argue convincingly
that vested interests of one sort or another prevent a solution of a


---Economics-1963-0-06.txt---
problem only if it can be shown that in the absence of these interests
the problem would in fact be solved. Certain modern Marxists, for
example, with a Keynesian slant, hold that persistent stagnation must
be our fate because, although government spending could fill the gap
supposedly caused by an inadequacy of investment opportunities,
private interests in the perpetuation of traditional government-busi-
ness relations will not permit it to play this role. But to make a case
for this view, it would be necessary to demonstrate that, (a) in the
absence of a large increase in public spending, investment opportuni-
ties will in fact fall short of absorbing the intended volume of savings;
(b) under these circumstances business interests will be better served
by persistent stagnation than by any practical change in the role of
government that could overcome stagnation; and (c) business has
sufficient political power to impose its interests on the public. To the
extent, however, that each of the propositions is shrouded in doubt,
the significance to be attached to the role of vested or special interests
becomes far from clear.
Parenthetically, it is a matter of some interest that the Marxian
analysis of capitalism seems to have subtly shifted from an emphasis
on the economic "laws" of capitalist development which must inevi-
tably bring to a close this stage of history to an emphasis on the socio-
economic structure of political power which will inhibit the use of any
governmental measures that might be expected to make capitalism
work.
To say, however, that the recognition of a substantial area of igno-
rance somewhat modifies our interpretation of the role of interests and
ideologies is not to deny that interests and ideologies significantly
limit and influence the choice of stabilization policies. As any reader
of the public prints or of testimony before the Joint Economic Com-
mittee knows, quite different analyses of the reasons for the current
stagnation and quite different recommendations for action emanate
from business and labor groups. And quite different explanations of
the "secret" of Western European growth rates are advanced.
It is difficult to characterize what is after all a fairly wide spectrum
of business opinion, but typically two considerations dominate the
business arguments: the burden of taxation on savings and investment
and the power of trade unions to push up wage rates. It follows that
any significant revamping of the tax structure should reduce the cor-
porate income tax and the upper brackets of the personal income tax
and if possible shift some of the burden from direct to indirect taxes.
Even with this additional inducement to invest the economy will
quickly tend to run into inflation unless something is done to curb the
power of trade unions to push up wage rates. Since investment rather


---Economics-1963-0-07.txt---
than consumption is the crux of the difficulty, monetary policy is to be
preferred to fiscal measures desigined to increase aggregate demand.
If fiscal measures are nevertlheless used they should clearly emphasize
tax reduction rather than increase of government expenditures. And
in no case should fiscal measures prevent a balancing of the budget
over the business cycle. The business case tends to emphasize growth,
mainly through increase in plant-and-equipment expenditures, rather
than stabilization. Indeed, there is some tendency to deny the exist-
ence of a stabilization problem in any other sense than that which
relates to the price level and balance of payments. The high unem-
ployment figures tend to be attributed to the vagaries of U.S. employ-
ment statistics or to the unwillingness of labor to accept employment
in the areas in which it is offered. Higher growth rates in various
European countries are attributed to tax and monetary policies that
are more adapted to a "capitalistic" environment than those of the
United States.
The analysis of the problem as presented by labor spokesmen tends
to rely heavily on the purchasing power argument. Increasing purchas-
ing power by increasing wage rates is now, perhaps, somewhat passe be-
cause of the rather too obvious connection with wage costs and prices.
Fiscal policy is currently the preferred route and increase in govern-
ment expenditures has much to recommend it in view of deficiencies
in services that only government can provide. If, however, tax reduc-
tion is preferred, cuts should be limited to the lower end of the scale
where tax relief will increase consumption rather than savings. Invest-
ment is considered to be a function of output and profits will be fully
adequate both as a source of savings and as an incentive to invest when
the economy is operating at close to capacity. Collective bargaining as it
presently functions is essentially satisfactory and there is no case either
for reducing the bargaining power of unions or for administrative con-
trol of wages and prices. The balance-of-payments problem tends to be
somewhat neglected in labor pronouncement, except as it is affected
by the investment abroad of U.S. capital.
It is not my purpose here to evaluate either the business or the
labor argument. It would be difficult, however, for such different
analyses and recommendations to continue to exist side by side were
it not for a substantial area of ignorance concerning the relation of
magnitudes relevant to stabilization policy. Furthermore, the presence
of ignorance seems, in a perverse sort of way, to harden conflicts and
to exacerbate group relationships. It might be thought that the exist-
ence of considerable uncertainty concerning the effects of a proposed
course of action might lead to a more cautious statement of claims and
counterclaims. In fact, it seems to produce the reverse behavior. Since


---Economics-1963-0-08.txt---
each group can rightfully claim that the opposition's case is not de-
monstrably correct or in certain respects is incomplete, the weakness of
the case is attributed to the influence of special interests or willful
misunderstanding. And under attack conceptions of interest tend to
narrow and ideological positions to harden.
It must, of course, be recognized that institutional relations and
ideologies do change under the pressures of circumstance. The 1930's
witnessed a quasi-revolutionary shift in the relationship of govern-
ment, business, and labor in the United States and this shift was ac-
companied by the public acceptance of substantial changes in ideas
concerning the functioning of the economy and the role of government
therein. A sobering question that now confronts us is whether it will
require a longer period of stagnation and deeper depression than we
have experienced over the last six years to force changes in institu-
tional relationships and ideologies and, if so, what shape are those
changes likely to take? Or is it possible through some process of social
invention and adaptation to accomplish necessary changes without
waiting for the build-up of irresistible pressures?
One of the difficulties in the current situation is that 5'2 to 6 per
cent unemployment and an annual growth rate of a little more than
212 per cent do not seem too serious. Before the advent of unemploy-
ment insurance, unemployment meant misery. Now it is interpreted to
mean lost output, a concept that presumably has some significance
for statisticians, economists and such ilk but does not impinge heavily
on the consciousness of most people. With per capita incomes at
$2,800 and average family incomes between $6,000 and $7,000 it is
also somewhat difficult to get excited about the lagging U.S. growth
rate. Furthermore, it is easy for apologists of the status quo to point
at any given time to the fact that output, employment or almost any
figure you care to name is, in a favorite phrase, "the highest in our
history." One is inclined to sympathize with the plaintive enquiry of
Senator Javits who, after listening to testimony of this sort, was
moved to ask "Why, if all of our indexes are up, are we very wor-
ried?" [12, p. 13].
It is, however, becoming increasingly difficult to deny that U.S.
unemployment figures mean what they purport to mean. Even after
adjustment to U.S. reporting techniques the unemployment rate in
1960 in France was 1.9 per cent, Great Britain 2.4 per cent, Germany
1 per cent, Sweden 1.5 per cent, while ours was 5.6 per cent [11, p.
220]. The divergence of our growth rate from those of the principal
Western European growth rates, and indeed from our own long-term
trend, has been too persistent and too glaring to be ignored. Moreover,
though the record of the last five years may be brushed off as atypi-


---Economics-1963-0-09.txt---
cal, it is difficult to brush off the longer-term implications. If stagna-
tion persists the labor pressure for a thirty-five hour week is going to
assume dangerous proportions and what this would do to our balance
of payments problem is not pleasant to contemplate. Furthermore, as
firms operate at relatively low levels of capacity, the expectations on
which price and investment policies are based are bound to be affected.
There is some evidence of this already, and there is enough in the
administered price doctrine to justify a fear that in many markets
adjustment of price policies to lower use of capacity is a relatively
easy matter. A real danger of stagnation is that in an economy in
which economic units are large enough to resist the pressure of market
forces it will induce policies and practices that insure the persistence
of stagnation.
But, having recognized that no one of the numerous protagonists
is likely to have a monopoly of the truth, how is the relationship of
the various interest groups to each other and to government in the
United States likely to affect the choice among various possible sta-
bilization and growth policies? To deal with this question it is neces-
sary to say something about these relationships, to consider what
limitations, if any, they impose on policy choices, and to offer an
opinion on the question whether, in view of these limitations, the pos-
sibilities that seem to be open are adequate to the problems that con-
front us.
There is an old saying to the effect that every country gets the
socialists it deserves. It is equally true that every country gets the
government, the type of business leaders, and the forms of labor or-
ganization it deserves. This is no more than to observe that institutions
and group relations are shaped in an historical context that differs
substantially from country to country. It is clear to the most obtuse
observer that there is a much more distant relationship between busi-
ness and government leadership in the United States, than, say, in
Britain, France, or the Netherlands. The Federation of British Indus-
tries has an entree to government, whether Conservative or Labour,
that neither the National Association of Manufacturers nor the Cham-
ber of Commerce has or, for that matter, would desire. A British
businessman, can say, "Some of my best friends are civil servants,"
and really mean it. This would be rare in the United States.
In France the relationship, at least since the war, has been even
closer. The type of planning favored in France brings together govern-
ment and business decision-makers, with their technicians, on a long
series of critical economic issues. I shall want to say something later
about the relevance of French practice to the United States but it is
obvious that what is called indicative planning in France demands


---Economics-1963-0-10.txt---
intimate government-business collaboration. In the Netherlands, gov-
ernment, business, and labor collaborate on a national wage policy
and government and business participate jointly in other aspects of
aggregative planning.
The relationship between government and business in the United
States can only be described as one of latent hostility which occa-
sionally, as in the past year, breaks out into rather more open hostil-
ity. The traditional visitor from Mars becoming privy to significant
domestic events of the last twelve months including the steel decision,
the behavior of the stock market, antitrust actions, and speeches of
various high government officials, would be hard put to it to explain
the bitterness expressed in many quarters. He could only conclude, I
believe, that these expressions arose from frustrations and resentments
lying deeper in the environment than the surface mirrored by these
events. A search for the source of these deeper manifestations leads
one, I would suppose, to consideration of certain obvious facts of
geography and physical environment, of the still undigested conse-
quences of the revolutionary change in the role of government brought
about by the events of the 1930's and the war, and going further back,
to consideration of the unique position attained by business in the
United States in the period after the Civil War.
What significance is to be attached to the fact that Washington is
a purely governmental city without industry and that the industrial
centers in the United States are generally far removed from this politi-
cal focus, I do not know. The fact that London and Paris are both
political and business centers no doubt helps to give the old school
tie greater scope than it would otherwise have. But the size and geo-
graphical dispersion of our population would in any case prevent this
kind of concentration even if our business and political centers were one.
The dispersion, however, does not adequately explain what seems to
me a much sharper separation of elite groups, government, business,
professional, artistic, academic, etc. than one encounters in most West-
ern European countries. Despite the continuing rapid vertical social
mobility in the United States horizontal penetration appears to en-
counter greater difficulties. Recently two outstanding businessmen
have commented on certain aspects of this phenomenon. Clarence
Randall has alleged that as business executives move up in the hier-
archy their circle of contacts narrows and that they tend to reach a
stage at the top where they talk only to themselves. A Bostonian
might be entitled to feel that this is even worse than talking only to
God. Ralph Lazarus has taken note of the suburban golden ghettos
in which well-to-do business and professional men preserve their
families from any contact with more sordid, but perhaps livelier ele-


---Economics-1963-0-11.txt---
ments of American civilization. However this may be, it seems prob-
able that the size, geographical dispersion, and racial heterogeneity of
population have some part to play in explaining the relative distance
between government and business in the United States.
Much more important, in my opinion, is the fact that the really
revolutionary changes in the role of government and in the relation of
various groups to government produced by the great depression and
the war have not yet been fully accepted in this country. Where coun-
terrevolution is still considered to be a possibility no one is quite
prepared to lay down his arms. This, of course, puts the matter too
strongly, but there continues to be a conflict between what in fact-
and quite demonstrably-has happened and the views that are held in
various quarters concerning the possibilities of action in the light of
these facts. Characterizing the situation in the broadest possible terms
I am inclined to emphasize the following developments: Government
expenditures as a percentage of gross national product have, of course,
increased enormously since the 1920's. If one lumps federal, state, and
local expenditures together they are currently running at twice the
volume of gross private capital formation in the United States. It is
obvious, therefore, that variations in these expenditures and in the
relation between tax revenues and expenditures can have an effect on
aggregate demand, output, and employment that was out of the ques-
tion in the 1920's. At the same time the role of government in the
process of economic decision-making, its "weight," if I may use the
term, has in many ways not increased commensurately with its share
in total outlays.
Although the relative growth of the public sector has necessarily
meant a relative decline in the position of the private sector there has
been no significant change in the predominant role assigned to busi-
ness in the process of capital formation and the direction of invest-
ment. Even at the depth of the depression in the United States when
business leadership was in nearly total eclipse the voices raised in
favor of expansion of government ownership or a larger role in the
direction of resource use were feeble and ineffective. The Tennessee
Valley Authority was about the only "socialistic" action that can be
attributed to the New Deal. The lasting changes of the 1930's were
mainly in the fields of social welfare, labor-management relations, and
the regulation of capital markets. The great increases in government
expenditures came, of course, during and after the war. An observer
of the current scene can hardly fail to be impressed by the absence
of doctrinal dispute on the proper role of business. Government owner-
ship is a dead issue if, indeed, it ever was a live one. Government
regulation of public utilities on which much hope was placed at the


---Economics-1963-0-12.txt---
turn of the century is in at least partial eclipse. The demand, particu-
larly in the field of transportation, is for less rather than for more.
Government has gone very far in turning over to, or permitting busi-
ness participation in, decisions which elsewhere are made only by gov-
ernment. This tendency has been most pronounced in the field of
research and development but it extends also to the loan insurance
and loan guarantee schemes of the Federal Housing Authority and
is part of a more general trend toward "contracting out" functions
that government proposes to support. This is one reason why federal
employment has not increased as rapidly as federal expenditures. But
it also suggests that there is very little disposition in this country for
government encroachment on traditional areas of business responsibil-
ity.
Part of the reason for a failure of both government and business
to adjust adequately to the change in this relative command over re-
sources is the rapidity with which the change was accomplished. If
one examines the history of federal expenditures as a percentage of
gross national product there was a continuous decline from about 5
per cent in 1870 (when federal finances still bore some of the Civil
War Impact) to roughly 2 per cent in 1912, 1913, and 1914.1 The
First World War, of course, greatly increased this percentage but it
is remarkable how rapidly and completely the share of the federal
government expenditures in GNP declined after the war. Despite a
sizeable increase in interest payments on the public debt the share of
total federal expenditures in GNP was only 4.6 per cent in 1922 and
declined to 3 per cent in 1929. In that year federal expenditures were
less than half of state and local expenditures but all government ex-
penditures as a percentage of national income were distinctly lower
than in most Western European countries. The rise in government
expenditures began much earlier in Western Europe, and this longer
period of growth, it may be conjectured, has had something to do with
an obviously more complete assimilation of the changed role of gov-
ernment by the community as a whole.
The great increase in federal expenditures both as a percentage
of GNP and in relation to state and local expenditures began only in
the 1930's. The share of federal expenditures in GNP increased from
4.1 per cent in 1930 to around 10 per cent by the end of the decade.
This high percentage reflected, of course, both the large public ex-
penditure for newly introduced social services, and the low level of
GNP still laboring under massive unemployment. Federal civilian
expenditures as a percentage of state and local expenditures reached
a high point of 52 per cent in 1948 and have declined somewhat since
The figures in this paragraph are taken from Kendrick [5, pp. 10-11].


---Economics-1963-0-13.txt---
then. It is interesting to note that federal civilian expenditures as a
percentage of GNP have not increased since 1938 [5, p. 50]. After a
very rapid reduction in military expenditures following the war the
disturbed international situation has produced a level of federal out-
lays that shows little tendency to decline. National defense expendi-
tures accounted for 85 per cent of federal purchases of goods and
services in 1961 and total federal expenditures amounted to over 19
per cent of GNP. This is to be compared with the 3 per cent figure in
1929. Big Government in the sense of a big sector of the economy is
a comparatively recent phenomenon in the United States and there is
evidence that we have not yet completely accommodated ourselves to
this fact.
If one wishes to push the analysis of government-business relations
farther back in time he would need to take account of the extraordi-
nary position acquired by business in the society after the Civil War.
It is probably not too much to say that its supremacy was contested
by no other elite. The Civil War in destroying the plantation aristoc-
racy had eliminated one potential rival. And, as Schumpeter has em-
phasized, U.S. business developed in an environment in which it did
not have to contend with an aristocracy by birth from whose numbers
have come so many members of the ruling class in Western Europe.
As late as the 1920's Calvin Coolidge could say with conviction and
pride that "The business of America is business," and be understood
by his fellow citizens.
So far as labor organizations are concerned, the growth of trade
unions with government encouragement and assistance has, of course,
had a profound effect on labor-management relations not only in the
area of unionization but outside. Furthermore, I think it can safely
be said that unions are here to stay. Concerning the relation of Ameri-
can unionism to stabilization and growth policy two observations seem
pertinent. It is clear by now that one cannot look to American labor
for anything in the way of social or political initiative. As one ob-
server puts it, "The labor movement in the United States has taken
pride in the fact that it is non-ideological. It has revelled in its bread-
and-butter or pork chop personality [1, p. 124]." Higher wages, more
job security and, if substantial unemployment persists, a demand for a
shorter work week, pretty much define the area of union initiative.
Secondly, the development of U.S. unionism has been such as to make
the formulation or implementation of anything like a national wage
policy extraordinarily difficult. Power is more decentralized than in
almost any Western European labor movement and all informed stu-
dents agree that a nationally organized and nationally effective trade
union organization is a necessary, though not sufficient, condition to a


---Economics-1963-0-14.txt---
successful national wage policy. It may be expected that labor leader-
ship will pronounce in favor of increased government expenditures
and of tax reduction concentrating on the lower income brackets,
though how much effect this has on the voting tendencies of the rank
and file it is difficult to say. Bearing these considerations in mind it is
perhaps fair to say that organized labor's role with respect to stabili-
zation and growth policy is apt to be passive rather than active. It
can obstruct certain courses of action; it can support others; but it
is unlikely to initiate.
How does this melange of special interests, conflicting ideologies,
and ignorance affect the prospects for stabilization and growth in the
United States and the choice of means thereto? The influence of what,
for want of a better word, I shall call institutional considerations
seems to me large; larger than is sometimes assumed by our "aggrega-
tive" colleagues. They not only help to explain differences in the re-
sponse in different economies to objectively similar stimuli but in a
particular economy bring about changes over time in the relationship
of various magnitudes that make the life of forecasters and policy
planners difficult. More important, these considerations tend, at any
particular time, to set definite limits to what it is desirable or feasible
to attempt in the direction of stabilization policy.
The French approach to stabilization and growth, or even the
Dutch, both of which, at least superficially, seem eminently successful
in their own environment, have very little relevance for U.S. condi-
tions. To begin with, it would have to be recognized that it is impos-
sible to determine to what extent the recent growth rate in France
is to be attributed to so-called "indicative" planning. Growth rates
in Germany and Italy have been at least as striking without the bene-
fit of anything that could properly be called planning. Indeed, the
German economy seems, in some respects, to be less "directed" than
our own. The projections of various economic magnitudes with which
we are so liberally supplied by the Council of Economic Advisers and
other agencies are almost completely lacking there. In France numer-
ous other influences, in addition to planning, may have a bearing on
stabilization and growth. One could mention the monetary reforms of
1958; the current and anticipatory effects of the Common Market;
the opportunities for technological advance offered by postwar recon-
struction and capital replacement; the development, with higher per
capita incomes, of economic activities in which scale economies are
important; the continued existence of bottlenecks providing lucrative
investment opportunities; and, no doubt, many others. Indeed, as one
regards the metamorphosis of the French entrepreneur, within a rela-
tively few years, from the traditional "lazy man of Europe" into his


---Economics-1963-0-15.txt---
present bustling, expansive incarnation one wonders whether economic
analysis can provide all the answers.
Insofar, however, as French planning has made a significant con-
tribution to stability and growth its main impact, it appears to me,
has been on the degree of uncertainty surrounding both public and
private investment decisions. French planning does seem to have been
able to make growth targets credible to the people who make invest-
ment decisions. This appears to have been made possible by an ex-
traordinarily close association of business men and public officials
assisted by competent technical advice. The tentative investment de-
cisions are binding neither on the government nor on business but
since representatives of both have participated actively in the plan-
ning process there are reciprocal expectations that become difficult to
ignore. And as expectations have tended, by and large, to be fulfilled,
uncertainties surrounding new decisions diminish.
Reflection, however, on the institutional arrangements that make
such an enterprise possible and fruitful in France serves only to sug-
gest how unpracticable this model is for the United States, even if it
were considered to be desirable. Government accounts for from 35 to
40 per cent of capital formation in France and consequently public
investment decisions are matters of moment to business. A long cartel
tradition has accustomed French business to industry planning. The
postwar necessities of reconstruction and replacement required gov-
ernment-business cooperation, and relationships useful to present plan-
ning activities were developed.
Inadequacies of capital markets in France have encouraged govern-
ment financing of private enterprise and close control of security
issues. French labor has either not been strong enough to inject itself
effectively into the planning process or has been willing to leave these
matters to governmnent and business. Possibly the softening of partisan
activities and the downgrading of parliamentary procedures under a
quasi-dictatorial regime have encouraged a certain degree of dirigisme
in the economy. In any case it should be obvious that there is little in
the French situation that is directly relevant to U.S. practice.
The same thing must be said of the Netherlands, though the Dutch
do not attempt anything as ambitious as the direction of investment
among sectors. The so-called aggregative planning of the Netherlands
is scarcely more than effective stabilization policy with growth left to
take care of itself. Even so, the institutional relationships that make
this policy effective are largely lacking in the United States. Although
there has been no great pressure for public ownership in the Nether-
lands, government operation of railways, public utilities, and mines
and extensive participation in land reclamation schemes assures a


---Economics-1963-0-16.txt---
large share for government in total capital formation. Wages have
been subject to comprehensive control since 1945 and the advisory
Labor Foundation, representing centrally organized management and
labor groups has played a dominant role in the formulation of wage
policy [6, pp. 41-42]. The very great dependence of the Netherlands
on foreign trade makes the balance of payments a critical element in
stabilization policy and helps to assure that fiscal and monetary meas-
ures designed to promote stability are not undermined by conflicting
wage and price policies. Dutch planning, moreover, is assisted by
highly competent technical advice which tends to be heeded by policy-
making authorities.
When one considers these and other examples of successful stabil-
zation and growth policies in Western Europe it becomes clear that
their transfer to the United States would be impractical without very
large changes in institutional relationships. This does not mean that
successful stabilization policy is impossible in the United States but
it does mean that certain policy instruments are not available. Un-
doubtedly the lack is most striking in the wage-price field which
Samuelson has called "the biggest unsolved economic problem of our
time [8, p. 360]." That this problem is not limited to the United
States is indicated by the plea of the OEEC experts on "The Problem
of Rising Prices" for a national wage policy.2 Nevertheless, both the
difficulties and our lack of progress in this area seem more striking
than elsewhere. In Norway and the Netherlands government partici-
pates with centrally organized labor and management groups in the
formulation of a relatively successful national wage policy. In Sweden,
although wage rates are nationally negotiated without government
participation, much attention is given to a wage policy designed to
stabilize prices at full employment [7, p. 93]. None of the countries
of Western Europe has been able wholly to avoid "wage-drift" or an
upward price creep but this has tended to take place at 1.5 or 2 per
cent unemployment rather than at 4 to 5 per cent.
Certainly the difficulties confronting anything like a national wage
policy in this country are formidable. We lack the nationally organized
management and labor groups which are a necessary though not suf-
ficient condition. The significance of relative balance in international
payments which has made wage-price stability of critical importance
in a number of Western European countries has only recently become
apparent in the United States. Opposition in this country both in man-
2"In the view of the majority of the group, the essential element, to be stressed first of  all, is that the stabilization authorities must have a wages policy for dealing with the  problem of wages-just as they must have monetary and fiscal policies for dealing with  the problem of demand" [10, p. 561.


---Economics-1963-0-17.txt---
agement and labor circles to government intervention in the wage-
price field is stronger than elsewhere. And in general it would have
to be said that there is a distrust of governmental initiative in the
whole area of stabilization policy that is lacking in Western Europe
[4, p. 108].
How significant the absence of a wage-price policy is likely to be
for effective stabilization measures appears to me to depend principally
on two relatively unknown considerations. The first has to do with the
question whether the forces that in the period 1953-58 produced an
annual 3 per cent per man-hour increase in output, a 412 per cent
increase per hour in total compensation, and a 2.1 per cent increase
in wholesale prices have significantly changed [3, p. 137]. That there
have been important changes bearing on this problem there can be no
doubt. The attitudes and expectation suggested by the phrase "infla-
tion as a way of life" have certainly suffered a severe blow. In a num-
ber of basic industries which have hitherto been leaders in the wage
push a combination of relatively slow secular increase in output with
massive technological change having serious employment effects will
inevitably moderate wage demands. In the very important field of
national defense industries national security considerations tend in-
evitably to damp both wage and price initiatives. Finally, persistence
of a serious balance-of-payments problem will force government in-
tervention in certain wage or price decisions regardless of labor or
business attutudes.
The second consideration has to do with whether an approach to-
ward fuller use of capacity will release, with increased investment,
that flood of technical improvements the expansionists foresee. It is
certainly quite possible, if the wage-price creep can be held to modest
proportions, that the competitive position of U.S. exports would be
improved rather than lessened by a closer approach to full employ-
ment.
However that may be, it is probably correct to say that the absence
of a national wage policy does and will continue significantly to affect
our stabilization policy. The effect is already clearly visible in the
current definition of full employment as 4 per cent unemployment.
The expectation of a wage-price creep helps to explain why full em-
ployment does not enjoy the high priority in the stabilization trinity
of employment, price level, and balance of payments it appears to
enjoy in Western Europe. And it probably means that monetary and
fiscal measures will tend to be employed tentatively and step by step
pending a testing of wage and price effects.
The second major policy instrument that tends to be blunted by the
group interests and ideologies here under consideration is fiscal policy.


---Economics-1963-0-18.txt---
I neglect the question of monetary policy for what seem to me the
adequate reasons that neither the quasi-independence of monetary
authority nor the interests and ideas of special groups offer a serious
obstacle to a monetary policy oriented toward stability and growth.3
The same thing cannot be said of fiscal policy. Minor reasons for a
lack of flexibility in this instrument are such restraints as debt ceilings
and interest limitations on government securities. The major difficul-
ties, however, are deeply held views on the desirability of budgetary
balance, suspicion of almost any increase in government spending,
conflicting views of interest groups on proper changes in the tax struc-
ture, and, above all, a general distrust of government as a manager
of the economic environment. As one observer has noted, "Counter-
cyclical finance is attacked by conservatives in the United States be-
cause of fear of irresponsible extension of government power while in
Europe it has been recognized as a conservative alternative to more
extreme government intervention [9, p. 605] ."
It is somewhat difficult to understand the conservative American
view since there is no discernible support in the United States for gov-
ernment ownership or control of activities now in the private sector.
Indeed, as I have pointed out, there is a strong disposition to "contract
out" to private enterprise services that tend elsewhere to be performed
by government. It seems possible that, over the longer run, this ab-
sence of ideological conflict in the traditional sphere of government
versus private ownership may facilitate the development of a flexible
fiscal policy. In the shorter run, however, the obstacles are formidable.
Perhaps the critical questions are these: Will predilections for a budget
that is balanced, at least over the business cycle, prevent a shift
in fiscal policy toward a budget that is balanced only at full employ-
ment? And will the tax reduction that may be involved in this process
strike some kind of an acceptable balance between the incentives to
investment demanded by the business group and the stimulus to con-
sumption demanded by labor? If not, the prospects for successful
stabilization policy are much darker than they need be.
In any case, the relative weakness of policy instruments in the
United States and the latent hostility apparent in government-busi-
ness relations tends to deprive growth targets of any operational sig-
nificance. It may be useful to project a 4 per cent growth rate at full
employment as a rough indication of the extent to which actual per-
formance falls short of potential but it cannot be assumed that any
one is going to do anything about it. The limitations that our institu-
tional structure plus current balance-of-payments considerations place
'Although the monetary authority is certainly subject to strong pressures, its quasi-
independent status appears to provide enough insulation to permit effective resistance.


---Economics-1963-0-19.txt---
upon the relevant possibilities of action tend to deprive such targets of
the credibility they would need to possess in order significantly to
affect business decision-making.
It seems probable that any one of the "radical" plans for handling
the balance-of-payments problem such as increasing the price of gold,
devaluation, or expanding the reserve functions of the International
Monetary Fund, might open up new opportunities for stabilization
policy. It seems probable that none of these courses of action will be
followed. It is more likely that, if relief is provided, it will take the
form of a reduction of foreign, particularly economic, aid programs.
But whether this happens or not the balance of payments as an essen-
tial part of the stabilization problem promises to be with us for a long
time.
In spite of the obstacles to effective stabilization and growth policies
stressed in this paper, the United States may nevertheless move to-
ward a satisfactory growth rate within a context of relative stability.
The acceleration of family formation foreseen for the mid-'60's, an
unexpectedly rapid exploitation of new technological possibilities, or
even unplanned changes in labor-management or other group relation-
ships, might make such a development possible. I have too little con-
fidence in economic forecasts including my own to deny this possibility.
But it does seem clear that any approach to a satisfactory situation
with respect to stability and growth will owe much less to deliberate
policy and much more to autonomous developments in the economy
than has been true in recent years in Western Europe. And for this
the historically determined relationships between government, busi-
ness, and labor are largely responsible.
REFERENCES
1. NEIL CHAMBERLAIN, "The Corporation and the Trade Union," in E. S.
Mason, ed., The Corporation and Modern Socieiy. Cambridge 1959.
2. E. F. DENISON, The Sources of Economic Growth in the United States
and the Alternatives Before Us, Committee for Economic Development
Supplementary Paper 13. New York 1962.
3. J. T. DUNLOP, "Policy Problems" in American Assembly, Wages, Prices,
Profits and Productivity. New York 1959.
4. MILTON GILBERT, "The Postwar Business Cycle in Western Europe," Am.
Econz. Rev., Proc., May 1962, 52, 93-109.
5. M. SLADE KENDRICK, A Century and a Half of Federal Expenditures,
Nat. Bur. Econ. Research Occas. Paper 48. New York 1955.
6. M. W. LEISERSON, "A Brief Interpretive Survey of Wage-Price Problems
in Europe," Study Paper 11, Joint Economic Committee. Washington
1959.


---Economics-1963-0-20.txt---
7. B. C. ROBERTS, National Wages Policy in VVar and Peace. London 1958.
8. P. A. SAMUELSON, Economics, 4th ed. New York 1958.
9. P. B. TRESCOTT, Review of United States Fiscal Policy 1945-1949 by
A. E. Holmans in Am. Econ. Rev., June 1962, 52, 605-6.
10. Organization for European Economic Cooperation, The Problem of Rising
Prices. Paris 1961.
11. President's Committee to Appraise Employment and Unemployment Sta-
tistics, Measuring Employment and Unemployment. Washington 1962.
12. U.S. Congress, Joint Economic Committee, State of the Economy and
Policies for Full Employment. Washington 1962.


---Economics-1964-0-01.txt---
We live in the age of integration. Every conceivable-or incon-
ceivable-combination of countries has been proposed, more or less
seriously, as a candidate for integration-other planets and outer
space being almost the only areas that do not yet figure in any of the
many plans and proposals. XVith the formation of the European Eco-
nomic Community, the European Common Market as a going concern,
integration has passed from the talking stage, where it had remained
for many years, into the stage of concrete realization. The example
of the Common Market, beside spawning a rival European combina-
tion (EFTA), has induced the creation of similar schemes in other
parts of the world-in South and Central America-and still others
are on the drawing board. I do not intend to offer yet another com-
parative analysis of any of those schemes. What I should like to do
is to put the modern integration movement into broader historical
perspective of the growing world economy.
Without wishing to engage in a lengthy discussion of the proper
or useful definition of terms, I think I should first indicate very briefly
what we mean by integration-I say "we" and not "I," because I hope
for fairly general agreement. We mean by integration closer economic
relations between the areas concerned. This is clearly a concept cap-
able of continuous gradation. One first stage is characterized by free
commodity trade, greater division of labor, tending toward equalization
of commodity prices. We have a higher stage of integration when
factors of production can move freely with a consequent tendency for
factor price equalization. (Allow me to skip the famous controversy
whether complete factor price equalization would result from free
commodity trade alone, with the remark that such equalization could
indeed result, but only under such unrealistic assumptions that for
practical purposes we can say that it would not. I hope that speaking


---Economics-1964-0-04.txt---
of "unrealistic assumptions" will not embroil me in another famous
and as yet unresolved controversy-namely, whether it is possible to
reach reasonable conclusions from absurd premises.) We have a still
higher stage of integration if all or the most important phases of
economic policy are coordinated, and positive steps are taken to
equalize commodity and factor prices.
I shall refrain from arbitrarily designating, as some have done, any
one stage as that of "true integration" and shall not go into the sub-
stantive question whether the achievement of a lower stage of integra-
tion by itself may have undesirable results which would involve probing
the mysterious depth of the theory of the "second best."
I. Waves of Integration
The recent movements toward integration are often regarded as
an entirely new development which has been envisioned and proposed
by many but has never before made headway on a significant scale.
I submit that this is true only in a formal and narrow sense.
Looking over the evolution of the world economy during the last
two hundred years or so, we can clearly discern three big waves of
integration-preceding and dwarfing the regional integration move-
ments of the last ten years. The secular trend toward integration and
growth of the world economy was interrupted by one period of sharp
decline and disintegration.
Let me first briefly identify these partly overlapping waves and
then discuss them in turn.
The first wave was the internal integration of the economies of the
nation states which we find today on the map of the world. The economy
of Great Britain was the first to be unified and integrated, the French
and American followed soon after. Later came other Continental Euro-
pean and overseas countries.
The second wave overlapping or, if you prefer, superimposed upon
the first was the free trade movement that reached its high point at
the end of the 1870's. The movement towards freer trade was reversed
in 1878, but despite the fact that in most countries tariffs became
higher and higher, world trade continued to grow rapidly up to WVorld
War I. For the underlying forces of rapid technological progress in
transport and mass production, as well as massive migration of labor
and capital toward the regions of "recent settlement" in the Western
Hemisphere, Oceania, and South Africa, still dominated over increas-
ingly protectionist commercial policies in many parts of the world. The
more draStic modern methods of trade restriction, quotas and exchange
control, had not yet made their appearance, and the movement toward
collectivism, interventionism, and national economic planning, which


---Economics-1964-0-05.txt---
later became a formidable obstacle for world-wide integration, had not
yet made much headway.
The first serious disintegration of the world economy, foreshadowed
by the rising protectionism and economic nationalism from 1880 on,
became a fact during and immediately after the World War of 1914-18.
After a brief interlude of freer trade in the 1920's, real disintegration
and rapid decline of world trade set in with the Great Depression. After
an incomplete and hesitant recovery, disintegration reached its nadir in
World War II.
The third wave of world-wide integration and growth started soon
after the end of XVorld War II, gathered momentum after 1948, and
is still in progress. It has been centered on and propelled by the
spectacular recovery and rapid growth of all indtustrial countries, in-
cluding the United States and United Kingdom, notwithstanding their
recent troubles and their lower growth rates compared with the Conti-
nent of Europe and Japan. Contrary to what is often said, the prosperity
of the "industrial centers" of the world economy did spread, though not
as rapidly and fully as one would wish, to the "periphery" of the less
developed countries, to use Raul Prebisch's picturesque designation of
the two areas. This wave of world-wide integration has had more
powerful and beneficial effects than the much more advertised and
talked-about series of regional integrations.
II. National Economic Integration
Let mne now add some observations on each of these phases of the
growing world economy. Later I shall analyze recent developments
in somewhat greater detail in the light of the historical perspective
gained.
The internal integration of the British and French economies was
vigorously pursued during the mercantilistic era. The economy of Great
Britain emerged as a fully integrated unit in the eighteenth century and
the economic integration of France was completed when the French
Revolution swept away all still existing internal barriers to trade and
migration. In both countries, as well as in almost all others, political
and administrative unification and centralization preceded and pro-
moted economic integration. Early attempts at close Anglo-French
economic co-operation, sponsored by the physiocratic advisers of Louis
XVI and by Adam Smith's influence on the younger Pitt, culminated in
the Eden Treaty of 1786 which brought drastic tariff reductions. But
the movement toward freer trade was premature and was soon inter-
rupted by the French Revolution and the following wars. Not before
1860 was the time ripe to accomplish what had been tried 75 years
earlier.


---Economics-1964-0-06.txt---
The American economy had the good fortune of having been inte-
grated at a very early stage. When the War of Independence came to an
end, the economic relations between the states resembled those of the
German states after the Congress of Vienna. Under the Articles of Con-
federation each of the 13 states of the Union pursued its own tariff
policy. But through the Constitution a huge free trade area for the
unimpeded movement of goods and services, of labor and capital was
created, which was surely a major factor in U.S. economic development.
On the Continent of Europe the major steps toward integrated
national economies were the economic unification of Germany through
the German Zoilverein (1834) and the emergence of a unified Italian
state in 1861.
Alfred Marshall called the Zollverein "the most important move-
ment toward free trade that the world had ever seen, except the con-
temporary reform of the British fiscal system" [12, p. 399]. I think
Marshall was right, for from the political and historical standpoint,
if not from the economic one, national economic unification was an
indispensable prerequisite not only for the economic development of
the various countries concerned, but also for the growth of the world
economy. This remains true even though we now know that the hopes
and expectations so widely held in the mid-nineteenth century, that
national free trade and integration would lead in straight and un-
broken succession to world-wide free or near-free trade, were not ful-
filled. To question Marshall's judgment concerning the Zollverein on
the ground of the next hundred years of German history would imply
extreme and untenable historical determinism.
There is no doubt that the Italian unification did for the develop-
ment of the Italian economy as a whole what the German unification
did for the German economy. This would be true even if the widely
held theory were correct that the economic integration and internal
free trade caused a retardation of the economic development of the
Italian South as a region in an absolute sense, not merely relatively
to the more progressive North.
The German and Italian national economic integration was pre-
ceded and followed by similar movements in many other European
and overseas countries.
III. World-Wide Integration Through Freer Trade
While this was going on, the second wave of world-wide integration,
as I called it, started-namely, the free trade movement of the mid-
nineteenth century. It was spearheaded by Great Britain, but spread
widely (especially after 1860) to the Continent of Europe. Let me
briefly recall a few landmarks-abolition of the Corn Laws in 1846,


---Economics-1964-0-07.txt---
the Cobden-Chevalier Treaty of 1860 between Great Britain and
France, which brought a radical reversal from high protection to some-
thing near free trade in France, and following the Franco-British accord
a number of commercial treaties which substantially reduced tariffs
all over Western and Central Europe. The impact of the free trade
movement was not confined to commercial policy and tariffs. Shipping
policy, which was extremely restrictive everywhere in the early nine-
teenth century, was radically liberalized, first in Great Britain as early
as the 1830's and later in other countries. Furthermore, the introduc-
tion of the "open door" policy in the British crown colonies and in others
was a major step towards the liberalization of world trade.
As far as tariff policy is concerned, the movement towards freer
trade came to an end in the last years of the 1870's. The two major
factors that caused the reversal of liberal commercial policy, first in
Germany (1878) and a little later in France and elsewhere, were the
accelerated influx of agricultural products from overseas countries-
United States, Canada, Argentina, Australia-and the impact of the
severe depressions of the 1870's and 1890's. But although import
tariffs in many countries showed a definite tendency to go higher
during the last quarter of the nineteenth century and the first decade
of the twentieth century, the volume of world trade rose rapidly
throughout the whole period up to WVorld War I. From about 1895 the
rate of growth was indeed substantially higher than during the pre-
ceding two, and possibly three, decades.
A number of factors account for the growth of trade in the face of
rising tariffs. The technological revolution in production and trans-
portation continued, of course, without let-up. However this factor
alone might not have been sufficient to support the growth of world
trade as is shown by the development during the next period, namely
the interwar years during which world trade did not show much growth,
although one could hardly say that technological progress had slowed
down.
The flow of capital and especially of labor from Europe to the
Western Hemisphere and a few other areas continuied at a rapid and
increasing rate until 1914, after which it slowed down sharply. More-
over, while tariffs went higher after 1878, they were on the whole still
moderate compared with those prevailing after World War I and, what is
equally important, much more stable. Furthermore, the international
payments mechanism improved with the adoption of the gold standard
by many countries in the last quarter of the nineteenth century. Interna-
tional clearing of balances aided by the easy flow of short-term credit
through London and other financial centers in Western Europe and else-
where promoted multilateral trade around the globe. Payment restric-


---Economics-1964-0-08.txt---
tions were, of course, almost totally absent, and so were other quantita-
tive trade restrictions such as quotas and export or import monopolies.
We are thus justified, it seems to me, to speak of a long period of
world-wide integration during which most countries were knit to-
gether ever more closely in a network of multilateral trade and pay-
ments. It is true that many writers-most of them later with the
benefit of hindsight, though one can also find a few contemporary
prophets of doom-thought that they could detect tendencies of incip-
ient disequilibrium and distintegration. As far as the economics of the
matter is concerned, these are merely ex post rationalizations and expla-
nations of what happened later. It is only in the field of ideologies, it
seems to me, that a case can be made for the theory that later events
were the likely and natural (though not the unavoidable) consequence of
earlier tendencies. Concretely, it can perhaps be argued that the rising
tide of economic and political nationalism and antiliberal thinking and
policies in general led to World War I and its aftermath. But there
surely was no inevitable economic nexus in the sense that a deep-seated
real maladjustment had arisen in the world economy, something anal-
ogous to what is supposed by many business cycle theorists to develop
in major if not all business cycle upswings- a real disequilibrium
which makes a painful and long drawn out readjustment all but in-
evitable.
The statement that there was nothing basically wrong with the pre-
1914 world economy will probably not encounter strenuous objections
from the piresent generation of economitsts, although it is contradictary
to i\larxian-type theories, especially the neo-Marxian theory of iu-
perialism, and to the Keynesian secular stagnation doctrine.
But the justification of what I have said must to a large extent rest on
the plausibility of an alternative explanation of the events of the next
thirty years.
IV. Disintegration of the World Economy, 1914-45
The period from 1914 to 1945, bordered by two world wars and
bisected by a catastrophic depression, can surely be described as one
of distintegration of the world economy and declining world trade,
under any reasonable definition of these terms.
The disintegrating forces were so strong that it is surprising that
world trade did expand at all. Let me briefly recall the major develop-
ments.
World WVar I was followed by acute financial disorders, rapid in-
flation in many countries and hyperinflations in some. In the United
States, the period of inflation ended in the severe depression of 1920-21
which had repercussions in many countries around the world, while in


---Economics-1964-0-09.txt---
Europe inflation was stopped abruptly in a series of successful stabiliza-
tion efforts between 1922 and 1925 without any immediate depressive
effects.
By the middle of the 1920's the world was back on what looked
like a normal course with most currencies again convertible. It is true,
tariffs were higher and less stable than before and had a tendency to
go higher; moreover, the integrated area of the Austro-Hungarian
monarchy was fragmented into several pieces. But despite these un-
favorable developments, world trade expanded fairly rapidly to some-
thing like 30 per cent above the prewar level. The effective exclusion
of Russia from the world economy, although an event of tremendous
political consequence, had a very limited economic impact on the world
economy during the interwar period.'
Then came the Great Depression and the picture changed completely.
The few remaining free trade countries, Great Britain`a first, switched
abruptly to high protection. Tariffs everywhere were raised rapidly and
almost all countries introduced quotas, exchange control, import pro-
hibitions, bilateral clearings-methods of international trading which
in peacetime had literally not been known for centuries. By 1932
the dollar value of world exports had tumbled to about a third of its
1929 level and its quantum was where it had been in 1913.
The quantum of trade in manufactured articles declined much faster
than that of trade in primary products, but the value of the latter
fell more, which reflects the extremely sharp deterioration of the terms
of trade for the exporters of primary products.
In 1938 the quantum of trade of primary products was again 16 per
cent above the 1913 level. While the world index of manufacturing
activity in 1936-38 was 85 per cent above the 1913 level, the quantum
of trade of manufactured articles was some 8 per cent below 1913 [3]
[25, Ch. 2.12 This contrast can be regarded as a rough indication of
the degree of disintegration of the world economy that had taken place.
For the purposes of this paper, as indicated above, I have to venture
to express my views on the basic causes of the exceptional severity and
length of the Great Depression. At the time when it happened most
' It is interesting that only at the lowest point of the depression in 1931-32 did trade with
Russia temporarily assume a somewhat greater importance for some European countries.
la It is true that during and immediately after World War I Great Britain applied a stiff
dose of tariff protection (the so-called "MacKenna" and "Key Industry" duties). But they
applied only to a short list of industrial articles, and some were temporarily removed
by Philip Snowden, Chancellor of the Exchequer in the first MacDonald ministry in 1924.
2The concept "world manufacturing activity" is, of course, somewhat nebulous and its
measure arbitrary and imprecise. But the statements in the text could be restated in terms
of GNP, industrial production, and trade of the major countries, concepts that are less ob-
jectionable than "world production," etc.


---Economics-1964-0-10.txt---
economists did not know what had hit them. Marxian economists, of
course, took the economic catastrophe simply as a confirmation of
Marx's theory that depressions would become more and more severe
until the capitalist system would come down in a final big crash. (In
the 1960's this view has lost conviction, even among the faithful.)
Others who lacked the prophet's guidance through the maze of world
history had a harder time to explain the slump. Some spoke vaguely of
big real maladjustments in the structure of production that had ac-
cumulated during the 1920's and others of the coincidence, accidental
or otherwise, of the contraction phase of several superimposed types
of concurrent economic fluctuations.3 The Keynesians later fashioned
their theory of secular stagnation.
From the present vantage point, the explanation of the exceptional
virulence of the Great Depression seems much simpler. It was mainly
due to the wholesale destruction of money, which in turn was largely the
consequence of institutional weaknesses and incredibly poor policies,
on the national and international level. Let me mention only a few of
these. The collapse of the American banking system, the bankruptcy of
thousands of banks, and the overly timid3a monetary policy which failed
to counteract energetically and to stop the raging deflation explain,
I venture to say, the "darkest hues" (Schumpeter) of the depression in
the United States. Money supply contracted by something like 30 per
cent from 1929 to 1933. The deflation could not have been nearly as
severe if there had existed then, as there exists now, effective deposit
insurance, or if the United States, instead of the archaic unit banking
system, had had an efficient branch banking system like Great Britain,4
not to mention "100 per cent banking."
The mistakes of the early New Deal of pressing hastily for often
poorly conceived reforms, of fostering monopolies of business (N.R.A.)
and labor and thus raising costs and frightening investors, instead of
concentrating at first all energies on expansionary measures to bring
about quick recovery (as Keynes among others recommended), explain
why in 1939 unemployment was still over 17 per cent. Policy mistakes of
a similar kind and magnitude were made in several other important
countries, for example in pre-Nazi Germany and under the popular
front government in France. Just as Roosevelt ignored Keynes' sug-
Schumpeter himself did not really take seriously his suggestion that the coincidence of  a Kondratieff, Juglar and Kitchin depression accounted for the severity of the 1930 depression.  On the contrary, he said that "the darkest hues of cyclical depressions . . . are due to ad-
ventitious circumstances." See [19, p. 1501.
8a The timidity of monetary policy should be judged by the magnitude of the problem  (the intensity of the deflation which was to be offset) and not by historical standards.
'If anybody doubts this statement, let him read Jacob Viner's brilliant, convincing, and  blunt but well-balanced analysis in l24]. Also see L1].


---Economics-1964-0-11.txt---
gestion that he postpone reforms until recovery had made good prog-
ress, so did Leon Blum the advice of his Scandinavian and British
socialist friends who recommended that expansion take precedence
over reform.'
On the international level the slow-motion, beggar-my-neighbor
devaluation of all currencies of the world at intervals of a few years-
sterling in 1931, the dollar in 1933-34, the gold bloc currencies in 1936
and so on-inflicted upon different groups of countries protracted
periods of overvalued currencies, causing deficits and losses, further
trade restrictions, and more depression. Although each of these devalu-
ations in isolation can be defended as unavoidable, their time pattern
stamped the whole approach as a sadistic policy, calculated to maximize
pain and destruction. It was like cutting off the tail of a dog piece by
piece instead of all at once, the way it surely would have been done had
there existed the International Monetary Fund.
These institutional defects and horrendous policy mistakes have
nothing to do with basic weaknesses or contradictions of the capitalist,
free enterprise economy, or with a tendency toward secular stagnation,
lack of investment opportunities and a chronic tendency toward over-
saving, or gigantic real maladjustments. At any rate, wherever the
monetary deflation was stopped by orthodox or unorthodox measures
without at the same time sharply raising costs, the alleged real, struc-
tural contradictions, weaknesses, and maladjustments disappeared as
fast as they had appeared a few years earlier.
It is true the methods used to stop deflation were very unorthodox in
many countries (not in all), and there remained almost everywhere a
legacy of high tariffs, tight quotas and many other restrictions on in-
ternational trade and payments. But the point is that this was not
necessary; deflation could have been stopped and the economy "re-
flated"6 in a more orderly, less unorthodox fashion with less structural
change and without damage to the international division of labor. Even
as it was, if in the meantime the threat of war had not arisen and the
war had not come, surely a good part of the new trade barriers would
have been removed and trading methods would have returned to a more
normal state of affairs. Actually, the outbreak of World WVar II delayed
the return to something resembling the pre-1929 conditions until the
1950's.
5 On Keynes' criticism of the New Deal policies compare R. F. Harrod, The Life of John  Maynard Keynes, New York, 1951, p. 447. Keynes was critical not of the reforms as such,  but of the timing of their introduction and of the methods of putting them through, which,  by frightening the businessman, unnecessarily delayed full recovery.
The information concerning Leon Blum I owe to Gunnar Myrdal.
'This does not mean that the price level would have to go back to the 1929 level.


---Economics-1964-0-12.txt---
Before going on to those recent developments, let us look back once
more at the interwar period. As it recedes into the past and we gain
perspective, it becomes increasingly clear, it seems to me, that the inter-
war or two-war period in general and the Great Depression in particu-
lar were in many important respects a singular historical phenomenon.
Let me become more concrete. I have already mentioned that the
exceptional severity and length of the Great Depression were due to
special circumstances, institutional weaknesses, and incredibly inept
and timid policies on the national and international level. This has been
misunderstood by the Marxians and Keynesians. The doctrine of
secular stagnation, the widely held expectation that World War II
would soon be followed by a deep depression-an expectation which
was still entertained by many when the second and even when the third
postwar recession came around-all these misjudgments as well as the
theory of the stubborn dollar shortage and the low elasticity of inter-
national demand stem largely, if not wholly, from the misinterpreta-
tions of the depressed 1930's as a more or less regular business cycle
downswing. A period of singular catastrophes plays havoc with trend
extrapolations, and many an analysis has come to grief. Examples in
the domestic field are the numerous estimates of saving propensities
and investment opportunities for the postwar years on the basis of in-
terwar experience and figures. Formidable difficulties arise for another
type of analysis-namely that which assumes the existence of some
sort of supercycle, be it Kondratieff or the now much more popular
Kuznets cycle. It is difficult to see how an endogenous mechanism pro-
ducing such swings or cycles could fail to be completely disrupted by
the elemental forces of a world war or the Great Depression.7 In the
international field, the famous conjecture that the terms of trade have
a secular tendency to deteriorate either for the less developed countries
or for primary producers is to a large extent the consequence of not
recognizing the interwar period with its two very sharp price declines-
in 1920-21 and 1929-33-as a singular event. In the light of later de-
velopments, this conjecture has lost its statistical support entirely.8 We
shall encounter other cases of analyses that have gone astray for the
same reason.
' It is possible by means of population or investment echos or some financial mechanism  to make a plausible case for the proposition that a tendency for long swings is started by  those powerful disturbances. But the attempt to carry the chronology of the long swings  right through the disturbed period of 1914-45 and thereby to suggest that the mechanism,  whatever it is, which produces the long swings should function more or less undamaged  right through that period, punctured though it was by tremendously powerful exogenous  shocks, seems to me entirely unconvincing and to compromise the long-swing hypothesis.
8The latest extremely careful evaluation is contained in Robert E. Lipsey's important
book l1l1.


---Economics-1964-0-13.txt---
V. The Growth of World Trade Since the War: The Case of the
Industrial Countries
I now come to the third wave of world-wide integration or reinte-
gration during the postwar period.
Since the end of the war, especially since 1948, world trade has
grown very rapidly. World exports rose from some $54 billion in 1948
to over $140 billion in mid-1963, and for the decade 1950-60 the com-
pound rate of growth of the volume of world exports was about 6 per
cent a year.' It seems that for the first time in almost a hundred years
world trade has grown faster than world production for a period of
more than ten years. I mention this fact for two reasons, first, to con-
vey an idea of the rapidity of the growth and, second, because so much
has been made of the alleged fact that since the late nineteenth century
international trade has in most countries grown less fast than national
income. You will remwember that years ago Werner Sombart tried to
establish a "historical law" of the "declining importance of interna-
tional trade."10 This alleged tendency has held a strange fascination for
many economists.'1 But I myself cannot see much importance in this
particular criterion. Whether trade has grown somewhat more or less
fast than GNP is hardly very significant unless the divergence is very
pronounced as it was in the 1930's. Here again the contours of the
trend have been blurred by the singular events of the Great Depres-
sion."
The rapid rise in world trade is the consequence of, but has also
powerfully contributed to, the rapid growth of world production. The
perlormance with respect to growth and stability of the majority of
national economies of the world has, on the whole, been satisfactory-
not in an absolute sense of perfection, but satisfactory compared first
with earlier periods (not only the definitely unsatisfactory interwar
period), compared secondly with what was expected by many econo-
mists 20 years ago, and compared thirdly, I dare say, with what one
In average of 1955-60 prices. See [4] [221.
10 "Die These von der abnehrnendeni Bedeutung der interniationalen Handelsbeziehungen"
or "der fallenden Export quote," Werner Sombart in [20, pp. 368-71].
" See [16] for a good, brief discussion and references to the recent literature.
12 Lipsey [11, p. 441 found that as far as the United States is concerned "over the whole
period [1879-1960] the only suggestion of a downward trend in the ratio of the quantity of
trade to output was the low interwar export and postwar import ratios. Both now appear
to have been temporary." Lipsey reached his results by using constant dollar rather than
current value trade figures. The difference between current and deflated dollar value ratios of
trade and output stems from the fact that both export and import prices have fallen in the
long run compared with domestic prices. Hence a different deflator has to be used for the
two iteims of the ratio. If "invisible" exports and imports could be added to merchandise
trade, the statistical support for the theory of the declining trade-GNP ratio would be
further weakened.


---Economics-1964-0-14.txt---
would gather from current statements of many experts, not to mention
politicians, statesmen, and other laymen.
Let me first discuss the case of the highly developed industrial
countries. As far as Continental Europe, Japan, and Australia are con-
cerned, my optimistic statement will probably not be questioned.
These countries can indeed look back to a decade and a half
of almost unprecedented and unbroken growth and prosperity, which
has definitely gone beyond the stage that could be reasonably regarded
merely as recovery from the low levels reached at the end of the war.
But I go on to say that an objective evaluation shows that, contrary to
what is often said or implied, the over-all performance of the American
economy, too, has been quite satisfactory in the sense defined above.
This holds for the whole postwar period including the last five or six
years of slightly slower growth and somewhat higher unemployment
of which we have heard so much in recent years. True, the U.S. rate of
growth has been much lower than that of Europe and Japan, but it has
been somewhat higher, over all and per capita, than it was, not only
during the whole interwar period, but for any period of similar length
(leaving out the Great Depression) since 1909 when reliable deflated
GNP figures begin. In the nineteenth century, aggregate GNP grew
faster, but as far as we can tell per head or per man-hour growth was
slower than during the postwar period.
The great improvement of the postwar years over earlier periods is,
of course, the complete absence of deep depressions. This is common
knowledge and it is, I think, fairly generally agreed now that there are
excellent reasons for assuming that deep depressions are a thing of the
past. I share this conviction and shall not repeat the well-known argu-
ment. But let us recall that this consensus, which now seems to extend
even to Marxist economists, did not exist or was at least much less
widespread only ten years ago.
But how about the last five years of somewhat slower growth and
higher unemployment? The critics of our economic system call it semi-
depression, just about the best one can expect under a capitalist free
enterprise regime. Many others agree with the diagnosis of an intoler-
able stagnation, but think that it could be cured by bold expansionary
measures. Some think that monetary and fiscal expansion alone would
not be enough, that drastic structural reforms (retraining of workers
on a massive scale, redistribution of income, and others) would be re-
quired to get the economy back to a high level of employment and to
keep it there.'3
To me any comparison with the 1930's, quantitative or qualitative,
seems to be entirely unwarranted, and structural factors explain only
X The most extreme position has been taken by Gunnar Myrdal in [14].


---Economics-1964-0-15.txt---
a small fraction of the problem. The explanation of the slack is
really quite simple: It is the consequence, directly and indirectly via
somewhat tighter monetary and fiscal policies than otherwise would be
necessary, of the deficit in the balance of payments.13a
To put the matter in the simplest terms, suppose the deficit in the
balance of payments disappeared all by itself-as it well may through
continued inflation abroad-can anyone doubt that our economy would
expand substantially, partly from rising exports and import substitu-
tion, partly in response to easier money and fiscal policies which then
would become possible?
It is really as simple as that although, looking at the size of the deficit
compared with GNP itself or with its annual increases, it may sound
astonishing that such a tiny tail should wag such a huge dog. But let
me get back to my main theme by brushing aside a mountain of real
and imaginary difficulties and controversies with the remark that it can-
not be beyond the wit of men-that is, us economists-to get this tiny
tail removed, with or without the surgery of a change in exchange rates,
and without in the process restricting trade in goods and services or re-
ducing growth itself below the otherwise attainable level.'
An indispensable condition for the rapid recovery and growth of the
industrial countries and the expansion of world trade was the removal
of the jungle of internal and external direct controls that had grown
up in many countries during the depression and the war. Price controls,
consumer rationing, allocation of raw materials, etc. were removed
quickly in some countries such as Germany and more gradually else-
where. By the middle 1950's the process was substantially finished al-
most everywhere and the price mechanism had again taken the place
of the wartime system of direct controls. The liberation of the econ-
omies of the industrial countries in Europe and elsewhere from the
shackles of direct control released great energies which led to the spec-
tacular rise in output and consumer satisfaction. I add "consumer's
satisfaction" because improvements in quality of products and a great
13a William McC. Martin, Jr., Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, has acknowledged the role of the balance of payments. "I am convinced that our
failure to solve the problem [of the balance of payments] up to now has not only been
damaging to our international relations but has also impeded the achievement of even high
levels of output and resource utilization" (statement before the House Committee on
Banking and Currency, July 22, 1963, Fed. Reserve Bull., Aug. 1963, p. 1062).
Since the slack is small, it cannot be far off the mark to say that the external deficit has
been the major cause of the slowdown.
14 I do not wish to say, of course, that in the absence of a balance-of-payments deficit
there will never again be a recession or a period of slack. For example, if at a higher level
of employment wage-push became stronger and prices started to creep up again, the mone-
tary and financial brakes would sooner or later be applied as they were in the late 1950's
with the same general result. But demand inflation, wage-push, Phillips curves, income
policy, and all that are not the subject of this talk.


---Economics-1964-0-16.txt---
increase in the variety of products (including services such as increased
opportunity to travel) surely are factors adding greatly to economic
welfare while finding inadequate expression in output figures.
In the international sphere the replacement of direct controls by the
price mechanism was much slower and in some countries less complete
than in the domestic area. But by 1959 the currencies of all industrial
countries were again more or less convertible; in other words, exchange
control was dismantled although restrictions on capital movements still
exist in many countries. Moreover, inmport quotas were gradually re-
moved, first in intra-European trade, but then largely also on dollar
imports and later, although still incompletely, on imports from Japan.
This freeing of trade constitutes a movement towards world-wide
integration that has preceded and overlapped the regional reduction of
trade barriers and regional integration in the European Common
Market and other similar schemes of which we hear so much. There
can be hardly a doubt that, up to now, the quantitative effects on trade
of the world-wide integration and liberalization have been much greater
than those of the miiuch more discussed and advertised regional schemes.
VI. The Growth of World Trade and the
Less Devcloped Countries
Now to the controversial and extremely important question of the
participation of the less developed countries in the over-all expansion
of world trade. From a careful study of postwar facts and figures, the
conclusion emerges, I believe, that the less developed countries have
greatly benefited from the expansion of world trade and that the pros-
perity in "the industrial centers" has spread to "the less developed
periphery."
This result is not surprising; both classical and Keynesian theory,
speaking with complete harmony on this matter, lead to the strong pre-
sumption, though not the absolute certainty, that the rapid growth of
the industrial countries will benefit the less developed countries by in-
creasing the demand for their exports, by making a more liberal supply
of capital and aid funds possible and, taking a broader and longer view,
by developing numerous new technologies and products, many of which
are extremely useful for the less developed countries. It is nevertheless
necessary to dwell on the matter and carefully to establish the meaning,
validity, and implications of the above statement because it runs
counter to widely held pessimistic views. The extreme form of these
heretical doctrines-heretical to the classical as well as the Keynesian
theory-is represented by the transference to the international sphere
of the Marxian theory of "increasing misery" (Verelendungstheorie).
Since it really makes no sense any more to say that the American,
European, or Japanese workers are getting poorer all the time, modern


---Economics-1964-0-17.txt---
Marxists have given up this theory for the developed countries. But it
has survived in the international sphere. Thus Paul Sweezy admits that
in the developed countries workers have a "tolerable if degraded life";
but the advanced countries "increasingly impose the burdens on the
people of the colonies and the raw-material-producing countries" [21,
p. 221]. A somewhat less extreme theory has been put forward by non-
Marxist writers. Thus Gunnar Myrdal holds that "trade operates (as
a rule) with a fundamental bias in favor of the richer and progres-
sive regions (and countries) and in disfavor of the less developed
countries." His thesis is not only that the poor countries derive less
benefits from trade than the rich, but that, in the absence of strong
protective policies, the poor become poorer if and because the rich get
richer."5
Baldly stated like that, these extreme views are not widely accepted,
but their influence in coloring the general thinking on these problems,
especially in the less developed countries, should not be underrated.
However, since they have been adequately criticized in the literature, I
shall not discuss them further [13] [2].
The moderate version of the pessimistic view concerning the interna-
tional position of the underdeveloped countries asserts that these
countries have had no, or only a very inadequate, share in the expan-
sion of world trade and that their international position has deterio-
rated continuously for the last ten years as evidenced by the lagging
volume of exports and unfavorable terms of trade.
Looking at the broad facts, we find indeed that while the volume of
exports and imports of the developed countries has grown at an annual
rate of about 7 per cent from 1950 to 1960, the volume of exports of
the "developing countries" (the official U.N. designation of less de-
veloped countries) has grown by 3.6 per cent and that of their imports
by 4.6 per cent during the same period.16 During the same period, the
terms of trade of the developing countries in the aggregate have de-
teriorated by about 9 per cent as a consequence of a rise of about 10
per cent in unit value of the imports of the developing countries and a
slight rise of unit value of their exports.17
See [151. Myrdal's policy conclusions are, of course, not the same as the Marxists'.
See [22, p. 11. Developed countries are North America, Western Europe, Australia,
Japan, New Zealand, and South Africa. Developing countries are the rest of the world,
excluding the "centrally planned economies" (Communist countries) in Europe and Asia.
" Measured from the peak in 1951 caused by the Korean War boom and massive U.S.
stockpiling, the deterioration in the terms of trade would be substantially greater-14 or
16 per cent. The fact that the deterioration reflects a rise in import prices rather than a
fall in export prices is significant because unit values of manufactured goods have a notori-
ous upward bias, due to the fact that the gradual improvements in quality and the continu-
ous appearance of new manufactured products are not, or very insufficiently, taken into ac-
count. In other words, a rise in import prices (of manufactured goods) is much less "real"
than a fall of export prices (of primary products) would be.


---Economics-1964-0-18.txt---
To speak of developing countries in the aggregate-or, what comes
to much the same thing, of a "typical" or "representative" underde-
veloped country-is, of course, a bold abstraction from which purists
will recoil in horror. The less developed countries are a much more
heterogeneous group than the industrial countries. Amnong them there
are semideveloped and wholly undeveloped countries; tropical and
temperate zone agricultural countries; petroleum, mining, and agricul-
tural product exporters; many pursue inflationary policies of varying
degrees of severity, others are more disciplined; a few have convertible
currencies but the majority suffer from overvalued currencies and their
trade is restricted and distorted by controls and multiple currency
practices of varying impenetrability.
In view of this great diversity of basic structures and policies, it is
not surprising that the trade and growth performance of the less de-
veloped countries is very widely scattered. To search for systematic
connections between the latter-performance-and the former-basic
structures and policies-would be a challenging task but cannot be un-
dertaken in one lecture. It would seem possible, however, to draw some
useful conclusions from the over-all picture.
The most important fact is that the volume of trade of the less de-
veloped countries has grown and is growing at a substantial rate. The
more rapid growth of the volume of imports than that of exports re-
flects the fact that these countries have been able to attract capital and
have received substantial aid from the industrial countries.
This on the whole favorable picture is not changed by the fact that
trade of, and between, the industrial countries has grown faster. The
more rapid growth of the trade of industrial countries is not a new
phenomenon. Even before 1914 it has often been observed, especially
by free trade economists with obvious satisfaction, that "the industrial
countries are their own best customers." But during the Great Depres-
sion trade in manufactured products (which can be taken as a rough
index of trade of developed countries) contracted more sharply than
the volume of trade in primary products.
There are, however, good reasons to believe, as Professor Samuelson
recently reminded us [17, p. 48], that lower total volume of trade
between the developed and underdeveloped countries may bring more
material benefits and consumer satisfaction to both partners than the
larger volume of trade between the developed countries. The reason is
that the intramarginal cost differences underlying the trade of manu-
factures between industrial countries are probably much smaller than
those on which the trade between industrial countries and the exporters
of primary products is based.'8
'Alfred Marshall has alluded to that; Richard Schueller in [18] has commented on this


---Economics-1964-0-19.txt---
There is another factor involved. One of the reasons for the lower
rate of growth of the trade of the less developed countries is surely
that practically all of them pursue highly protectionist policies. In my
opinion, they are going in their protectionism far beyond what can pos-
sibly be justified on infant-industry, terms-of-trade, or any other ra-
tional grounds. But whether one accepts this judgment or not, high pro-
tection reduces the volume of trade19 and by the same token increases
the marginal benefit from trade.
As for the terms of trade, the deterioration from the early 1950's is,
of course, regrettable in the sense that the less developed countries
would be better off if in 1960 their terms of trade were the same as in
1950. But we must keep a sense of proportion. The deterioration was
not catastrophic and cannot be compared with what happened in the
1930's. The comparative order of magnitude is indicated by the fact
that while, according to the U.N., from 1950 to 1960 the deterioration
was 9 per cent, Kindleberger found that in 1938 the terms of trade of
industrial Europe with a large part of the underdeveloped world stood
at 149, with 1928 100 [22] [6].20 To convey an idea of the absolute
magnitude of the "burden" or "loss" involved, let me mention that the
U.N. report computes that "had the terms of trade of the less developed
countries been stabilized at their 1950 level the aggregate purchasing
power of their exports in terms of imports in 1960 would have been
greater to the extent of $2.3 billion." This is not a negligible sum, but
compared with the national income of the less developed areas of the
fact. See also D. H. Robertson [16]. It should be observed, however, that freer trade be-  tween the industrial countries, although it may be less valuable than trade between industrial  and tropical countries on comparative cost grounds, can be beneficial through stimulating  competition and counteracting monopolistic tendencies. This effect of free trade has been  stressed by J. S. Mill and reiterated by modern theorists of integration, e.g., by Tibor
Scitovsky and Harry Johnson.
1 In underdeveloped countries the theory has been widely accepted that in less developed  countries import restrictions do not reduce the volume of imports or exports; they merely  cause a shift of imports from, say, luxury goods to capital goods. In the developed industrial  countries, it is said, the classical rule still applies that import restrictions reduce the volume  of trade in both directions. This is the official doctrine of the U.N. Economic Commission  for Latin America (ECLA). See, e.g., [23, esp. p. 61]. The reason usually given is that these  countries spend all their export proceeds anyway. This, of course, overlooks that protection  draws factors of production into the protected industries from the export sector. Only under  extreme and entirely unrealistic assumptions concerning the existence of large masses of  disguised unemployment (including that of skilled workers), of surplus capacity, and very  elastic capital supply could the conclusion be overthrown that export supply will contract as  a consequence of massive import substitution brought about by heavy protection.
20Kindleberger's figures are not quite comparable with the U.N. figures because his area  breakdown is a different one. The figure quoted in the text refers to industrial Europe's terms  of trade with "all other areas," i.e., the world excluding the rest of Europe, the United States,  and the "countries of recent settlement." With the last-mentioned area the index of industrial
Europe's terms of trade stood at 138 in 1938 (1928 = 100).


---Economics-1964-0-20.txt---
world or its annual increase it is quite small.2' The incidence of the 9
per cent over-all deterioration of the terms of trade on different areas
was, of course, very uneven. Latin America, for example, suffered a de-
terioration almost double the average, the Middle East none at all, and
the rest of Asia (excluding Japan) one much smaller than the average.
But even in the area hardest hit-Latin America-the "importing
power of exports" (volume of exports multiplied by terms of trade, also
called "capacity to import") has substantially increased throughout
the period of 1950 to 1960 [4, p. 61]. As has frequently happened in
the past, the impact of the change in the terms of trade on the primary
exporters was partly offset by a sharp decline in freight rates which
were very high in the early 1950's.22 Since the middle of 1962, the inter-
national trade situation of the less developed countries has improved
greatly, prices of many primary products have risen substantially, the
terms of trade did not show any further deterioration, and export earn-
ings have registered sizable increases.
Nobody can be sure how long that improvement will continue and
how far it will go. But assuming that the industrial countries avoid
serious depressions and maintain a good rate of growth, barring further
revolutionary technological changes (such as the invention of cheap syn-
thetic coffee) and highly protectionist policies on the part of the indus-
trial countries-under these not unreasonable assumptions the less de-
veloped countries can look forward to a continuously expanding market
21 Sonme may question the relevance of a comparison with national income. In my opinion,
it is relevant with certain qualifications: A large and sudden change in the terms of trade
might cause serious transitional difficulties. Or, if a cotuntry by extreme protectionism has
reduced its imports to a bare minimum and has neglected its export industries, a decline in
the terms of trade may necessitate a further reduction of imports which have already been
stripped to essentials. In that case the impact on GNP would be out of proportion to the
money cost of the deterioration quoted in the text because the "marginal benefit" of imports
would be much higher than the marginal benefit of domestic production. If my income falls
by 5 per cent and I were forced to skimp on food rather than spread the shortfall over
the whole range of expenditures, the result would be disastrous. But I doubt whether any
country really finds itself in such a predicament, although extreme protectionism could con-
ceivably put it there.
' Charles Kindleberger has pointed out to me that a veritable revolution has taken place
in ocean transportation. Thus, while the world wholesale price index in dollars has about
doubled since before the war, oil tanker rates are just about where they were, and dry cargo
rates have gone up on a very rough average by 50 per cent. This great cheapening of trans-
port cost constitutes a powerful integrating force in the world economy and has bestowed
great benefits, especially on many less developed countries, by improving their f.o.b. terms
of trade.
The drastic reduction in transport cost, made possible by technological advances, applies
primarily to the very competitive international routes. Many countries rob themselves of
those very large benefits by highly protectionist shipping policies. This is especially true of
coastal shipping, including sometimes shipping between neighboring countries. For example,
freight rates between Rio de Janeiro and Buenos Aires are often as high as between Buenos
Aires and New York, because of nationalistic policies. See [8, p. 2971.
The jet aircraft promises to produce another revolutionary advance in transport technology.


---Economics-1964-0-21.txt---
for their exports, and a sharp deterioration of their terms of trade com-
parable to what happened in the 1930's is virtually excluded.
I should add that this fairly optimistic appraisal relates only to the
international trade position of the less developed countries.23 Far be it
from me to belittle the severe handicaps from which many less de-
veloped countries suffer, such as poor natural resources and bad cli-
mate, population pressure, political and social instability, and, I am
afraid one has to add, exceedingly bad economic policies. All I have
said was that a shrinking or stagnant world market has not been among
the handicaps since the war.
VII'. Outlook for the Future
Instead of summarizing what I have said, let me try to peer a little
into the future. Since economists are not endowed with the gift of
prophecy, I shall not try to predict what will happen to world trade in
the future but do the next best thing and suggest what would be the
course of events if certain conditions are fulfilled.
I see no reason why the the growth of world trade and the ever closer
integration of the major areas of the world should not continue if two
conditions are met. The first, basic requirement is maintenance of a
high level of employment and growth in the industrial countries. On
this nothing more need be added, except to say that to me the chances
look good that this condition will be fulfilled. But it is a necessary, not
a sufficient, condition. At least in the larger countries economic activity
could grow quite satisfactorily (although not at the highest attainable
speed) without a corresponding growth of trade.
The second presupposition is further liberalization of trade or, as a
minimum, avoidance of increases in trade barriers for balance-of-pay-
ments or protectionist reasons. I am afraid we cannot be so sure about
this condition being met as about the first. Balance-of-payments
23 W. Arthur Lewis has reached similar conclusions in two important papers [9] [10].
Speaking of Latin America, he said: "Puzzling are those cries which seem to be founded on
the belief that it is particularly difficult to expand exports because the world is buying
fewer and fewer exports. The opposite is true. World trade has never grown faster. Between
1950 and 1960 the quantum of world trade in primary products increased at an average
rate of 6 per cent per annum, and the quantum of world trade in manufacturers by more
than 7 per cent per annum. The terms of trade for primary products could not retain the
heights to which they were raised by the speculative fever of the Korean War and the heavy
American stockpiling in the early fifties; nevertheless the average terms of trade for the
decade of the nineteen-fifties were better than for any previous decade in all the preceding
hundred years. I do not know whether it is in fact true that in the 1950's, Latin America
had difficulty in keeping her exports growing at the same rate as national income but if
this was so, it cannot possibly have been due to failure of world demand to grow ade-
quately, since the quantum of world trade was growing by about 7 per cent per annum  throughout the 1950's. Taking the continent as a whole, rather than individual countries,
failure on this score can only have been a failure of effort" [10, pp. 10-11].


---Economics-1964-0-22.txt---
troubles among industrial countries could easily become a serious road-
block to freer trade, as is already the case to some extent in the United
States through the tying of loans, buy-American policies, and similar
protectionist devices. Paradoxically, attempts at regional integration in
various parts of the world constitute an imminent danger to world-wide
integration and further growth of multilateral trade.24
As to the balance of payments, I must confine myself to a few re-
marks. The current American difficulties will somehow be resolved, but
will hardly remain the last case of serious disequilibrium among the
industrial countries. WVith the rate of growth slowing down and infla-
tion going on in some countries, with anti-inflationary and growth-pro-
moting measures being taken in different countries with different de-
grees of vigor and success, it would be very surprising indeed if strains in
the international payments system did not develop from time to time
in different places.
The extreme reluctance to change any exchange rate and the stub-
born rejection of floating rates not only for reserve currencies, which
is understandable, but also for nonreserve currencies throw a very
heavy burden on internal price and wage adjustments. The success-
ful operation of the present system requires, if world-wide inflation
is to be avoided, a degree of financial and wage discipline which few
countries have so far been able to muster.25 But the problem is not in-
soluble and, since the imposition of financial and wage discipline is, after
all, the most important advantage that can be claimed for the system
of stable exchange rates, we can only hope that sufficient discipline will
in fact be forthcoming to bring about the necessary adjustments
smoothly and speedily without causing severe restrictions of trade or
serious unemployment in the process.
I suppose I have to mention international liquidity. I can only say
that it does not strike me as a problem of major importance or diffi-
culty. The policy-makers have a great number of plans to choose from
-Bernstein, Posthuma, Roosa, Triffin, Zolotas, to mention only a few
luminaries. Even the more modest ones would banish the danger of a
general lack of liquidity, at least for many years. I wish, therefore, that
a large part of the professional ingenuity that is now being spent so
lavishly on that issue were diverted to the basic and much more difficult
problems of internal price and wage restraints and adjustments.
'Another acute danger, which cannot be discussed here, is regimentation, contraction,
and distortion of trade through the numerous international price-support schemes of im-
portant commodities now under active consideration.
' I would agree that a floating rate system, too, requires price and wage discipline for
successful operation. But I would argue that the fixed rate system calls for much sterner  discipline.


---Economics-1964-0-23.txt---
The regional integration schemes that are now in the process of reali-
zation have developed strongly protectionist features which go far
beyond their unavoidable discriminatory effects. This is true of the
European Common Market and even more so of its Latin American
counterpart. In fact, as far as the latter is concerned, it is an understate-
ment to say that protectionist tendencies have appeared. The Latin
American Free Trade Area (LAFTA) has been conceived openly and
frankly as a protectionist device from its beginning.2" On the other hand,
many of the managers and supporters of EEC inside and outside the
six members sincerely regard the Common Market as a step towards
freer trade. But good intentions even on the part of the managers are
not enough. An international enterprise of that magnitude, once it has
been launched with a tremendous effort and enthusiasm and has been
institutionalized through the creation of a heavy politico-bureaucratic
machinery, tends to develop its own logic and movement. After it has
gathered momentum, it becomes very difficult to steer it in another
direction. This has been discovered, to their sorrow, by the vocal
and vigorous forces which, working from within and from without
EEC, have been trying to persuade the Community to adopt an "out-
ward looking attitude," as the phrase goes. A crucial test as to whether
or not it can be made to move in the direction of freer trade will come
next year when the negotiations begin in earnest on the so-called Ken-
nedy-round of tariff reductions in Geneva.
Let us hope that this noble experiment will succeed, that tariffs
between the industrial countries and on imports from the less developed
countries will be drastically reduced. Then the future economic histo-
rian will be able to say of the European Economic Community what
Marshall said of the German Zollverein-it was a big step toward freer
multilateral trade.
'This does not necessarily mean that it is undesirable. There are valid arguments for
protection which theoretically can be applied to customs unions or free trade areas. In the
case of LAFTA, the protectionist effects are, however, so strong that it would be very
difficult to make a rational case for it on, say, infant-industry grounds. It could conceivably
be defended with the help of a theory of the third or fourth best. Let me briefly indicate
what I have in mind. By means of a policy of partly repressed inflation, tight exchange
control, etc. a country can maneuver itself into a position where trade is so sharply con-
tracted and distorted that even bilateral trade is better than no trade. Similarly, a regional
trade expansion may be better than no expansion at all, althou-h a relaxation of controls
and general expansion of trade would be infinitely better.
REFERENCES
1. MILTON FRIEDMAN AND ANNA SCHWARTZ, Monetary History of the
United States. New York 1963.
2. GOTTFRIED HABERLER, "International Trade and Economic Development,"
National Bank of Egypt, Fiftieth Anniversary Commemoration Lectures.
Cairo 1956.


---Economics-1964-0-24.txt---
3. FOLKE HILGERDT, lizdustriatization and Foreign Trade. League of Nations
1945.
4. INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND, Ainnual Report, 1963.
5. , Internzational Financial Statistics, recent issues.
6. C. P. KINDLEBERGER, Foreign Trade and the National Income. New
Haven 1962.
7. , The Terms of Trade. New York 1956.
8. GUILLERMO WV. KLEIN, "Die Lateinaamerikanische Integration und die
WXeltwirtschaft," in A. Hunold, ed., Lateinamerika: Land der Sorge und
der Zlunkkunft. Zurich 1962.
9. W. ARTIIUR LEWIS, "Economic Development and World Trade," sub-
mitted to the International Congress on Economic Development organized
by The International Economic Association. Vienna 1962. (Mimeo.)
10. , "Closing Remarks," Conference on Inflation and Economic De-
vclopment. Rio de Janeiro, January 1963. (Mimeo.)
11. R. E. LIPSEY, Price and Quantity Trends in the Foreign Trade of the
United States. Nat. Bur. of Econ. Research. Princeton 1963.
12. ALFRED MIARSHALL, Official Paipers. London 1926.
13. GERALD M. MIEIER, "International Trade and International Inequality,"
Oxford Econ. Papers, Oct. 1958, N.S. 10, 277-89.
14. GUNNAR MYRDAL, Challeinge to Affi ence. New York 1963.
15. , "Development and Underdevelopment," National Bank of Egypt,
Fiftieth Anniversary Comimemoration Lectures. Cairo 1956. Revised ver-
sion, Econtomic Theory anid Underdeveloped Regions. London 1957.
16. D. H. ROBERTSON, "The Future of International Trade," Econ. Jour.,
March 1938, 48, 1-14.
17. PAUL SAMUELSON, Stability and Growth in the American Economy. Wick-
sell Lectures 1962. Stockholm 1963.
18. RICHARD SCIUELLER, Schut=-oll und Freihandel. 1905.
19. JOSEPH SCHUMPETER, "Historical Approach to the Analysis of Business
Cycles," in Conferenzce on Business Cycles, Universities-National Bureau
Committee for Economic Research. New York 1951.
20. W. SOMBART, Die deutsche Volkswirtschaft im 19. Jahrhuindert, 3, Auflage.
Volksausgabe, Berlin 1913.
21. PAUL SWEEZY, "Marxism: A Talk to Students," Monzthly Rev., Oct. 1936.
22. UNITED NATIONS, World Economic Survey 1962. Part I: The Developing
Countries in WVorld Trade. New York 1963.
23. , International Co-operation in a Latin American Development
Policy. New York 1954.
24. JACOB VINER, "Recent Legislation and the Banking Situation," Am. Econ.
Rev., Mlarch 1936, Supplement, 26, 106-19.
25. W. S. AND E. S. WOYTINSI,Y, World Commerce and Wor-ld Government.
New York 1955.


---Economics-1965-0-01.txt---
In 1776 our venerable master offered clear and emphatic advice to
his countrymen on the proper way to achieve economic prosperity. This
advice was of course directed also to his countrymen in the American
colonies, although at that very moment we were busily establishing
what would now be called a major tax loophole. The main burden of
Smith's advice, as you know, was that the conduct of economic affairs
is best left to private citizens-that the state will be doing remarkably
well if it succeeds in its unavoidable tasks of winning wars, preserving
justice, and maintaining the various highways of commerce.
That was almost two centuries ago, and few modern economists
would assign anything like so austere a role to the economic responsi-
bilities of the state. The fact that most modern economists are as con-
fident in prescribing a large economic role to the state as Smith was in
denying such a role is not necessarily surprising: professional opinions
sometimes change after 188 years, and economic and political institu-
tions are of course even less durable.
But, surprising or not, the shifts in the predominant views of a pro-
fession on public policy pose a question which I wish to discuss. That
question is: on what basis have economists felt themselves equipped to
give useful advice on the proper functions of the state? By what
methods did Smith and his disciples show the incapacity of the state
in economic affairs? By what methods did later economists who favored
state control of railroads, stock exchanges, wage rates and prices, farm
output, and a thousand other things, prove that these were better di-
rected or operated by the state? How does an economist acquire as
much confidence in the wisdom of a policy of free trade or fiscal stabil-
ization as he has in the law of diminishing returns or the profit-maxi-
mizing propensities of entrepreneurs?
The thought behind these questions is simple. Economists generally
share the ruling values of their societies, but their professional compe-
tence does not consist in translating popular wishes into an awe-inspir-


---Economics-1965-0-02.txt---
ing professional language. Their competence consists in understanding
how an economic system works under alternative institutional frame-
works. If they have anything of their own to contribute to the popular
discussion of economic policy, it is some special understanding of the
relationship between policies and results of policies.
The basic role of the scientist in public policy, therefore, is that of
establishing the costs and benefits of alternative institutional arrange-
ments. Smith had no professional right to advise England on the Navi-
gations Acts unless he had evidence of their effects and the probable
effects of their repeal. A modern economist has no professional right to
advise the federal government to regulate or deregulate the railroads
unless he has evidence of the effects of these policies.
This position, you must notice, is not quite the familiar one that an
economist's value judgments have no scientific status-indeed I shall
neither dispute nor praise value judgments. The position is rather that
if a subject is capable of study, a scholar ought to study it before he
advises legislators. Suppose you deplore disease or, conversely, that
you greatly admire the much-persecuted germ. My assertion is that
however you stand, you should not support proposals to compel or to
forbid people to go to a doctor until you find out whether their attend-
ance on a doctor will increase or decrease the incidence of disease. If this
particular example strikes you as absurdly pedantic, I offer two re-
sponses. First, will your answer be the same whatever the state of
medical science in a country? Second, we shall come to harder prob-
lems.
My task, then, is to ask in as hardheaded a way as possible what
precisely was the evidence economists provided for their policy recom-
mendations, evidence that successfully linked their proposals with the
goals they were seeking to achieve. I begin with Adam.
I
Smith bases his proposals for economic policy upon two main posi-
tions. Neither basis is presented in a formal and systematic fashion,
and there are serious problems in determining exactly why he wishes
most economic life to be free of state regulation.
Smith's first basis for his economic policies was his belief in the effi-
ciency of the system of natural liberty. There can be little doubt that
this tough-minded Scotsman, this close friend of that cool and clear
thinker, David Hume, had a deep attachment to the natural law of the
late enlightenment. But Smith did not propose natural liberty as a lay
religion of political life. Instead he argued, as a matter of demonstrable
economic analysis, that the individual in seeking his own betterment
will put his resources where they yield the most to him, and that as a
rule the resources then yield the most to society. Where the individual


---Economics-1965-0-03.txt---
does not know, or dc-s not have the power to advance, his own inter-
ests, Smith feels remarkably free to have the state intervene.
Thus Smith says that to restrain people from entering voluntary
transactions "is a manifest violation of that natural liberty which it is
the proper business of law, not to infringe but to support"; yet he con-
tinues [11, p. 308]:
But those exertions of the natural liberty of a few individuals, which might
endanger the security of the whole society, are, and ought to be, restrained
by the laws of all governments; of the most free, as well as of the most des-
potical. The obligation of building party walls, in order to prevent the
communication of fire, is a violation of natural liberty, exactly of the same
kind with the regulations of the banking trade which are here proposed.
Natural liberty seems to have been little more than a working rule, and
Smith proposes numerous departures from natural liberty because the
participants are incompetent or fail to consider external effects of their
behavior.' He is quite willing to outlaw payment of wages in kind,
which he believes will defraud the worker, and to put a limit on interest
rates, because high interest rates encourage lenders to entrust their
funds to improvident projectors, and to have a complicated tax system
to change the uses of land.
The second foundation of Smith's strong preference for private eco-
nomic activity was that he deeply distrusted the state. This distrust, I
must emphasize, was primarily a distrust of the motives rather than of
the competence of the state. Smith makes very little of inept govern-
mental conduct-indeed he clearly believes that as far as efficiency is
concerned, the joint stock companies, and even more the universities,
are worse offenders than the state. His real complaint against the state
is that it is the creature of organized, articulate, self-serving groups-
above all, the merchants and the manufacturers. The legislature is di-
rected less often by an extended view of the common good than by "the
clamorous importunity of partial interests" [11, p. 438].
Purely as a matter of professional appraisal, I would say that Smith
displayed superb craftsmanship in supporting his first argument-that
free individuals would use resources efficiently-but was excessively
dogmatic in asserting his second argument, which accepted the compe-
tence but rejected the disinterest of the governmental machine. He gives
no persuasive evidence that the state achieves the goals of its policies,
and in particular he asserts rather than proves that the mercantile sys-
tem had a large effect upon the allocation of British resources. Nor does
he demonstrate that the state is normally the captive of "partial inter-
ests."
Smith's intellectual heirs did little to strengthen his case for laissez
ISee the essay by Viner, "Adam Smith and Laissez Faire," in Adam Smith 1776-1926
(University of Chicago. 1928),


---Economics-1965-0-04.txt---
faire, except by that most irresistible of all the weapons of scholarship,
infinite repetition. Yet they could have done so, and in two directions.
Where Smith finds the competitive market incapable of performing
a task, tlhey might have corrected him, for he was sometimes wrong. To
a degree this was done: Smith's belief that the market set too low a
value on investment in agriculture, and too high a value on foreign in-
vestment, was properly criticized by McCulloch [6, pp. 144 ff.], and
the aberration on usury was of course promptly challenged by Ben-
tham. But for each of Smith's errors that was corrected, several new
ones were introduced. J. S. Mill, for example, gravely argued that the
competitive market was incapable of providing a reduction in the hours
of work even if all the workers wished it-a mistake I am not inclined
to excuse simply because so many later economists repeated it.
What I consider to be a more important weakness in Smith's posi-
tion, however-his undocumented assumption that the state was effi-
cient in achieving mistaken ends2-was not only accepted, but em-
phatically reaffirmed by his followers. James Mill's identification of the
evils of government with the undemocratic control of its instruments
was an extreme example, but an instructive and influential one. The
holder of the power of government would always use it to further his
own ends-so argued Mill with an oppressive show of logical rigor. It
followed that only a democratically controlled state would seek the
good of the entire public:
The Community cannot have an interest opposite to its interest. To affirm
this would be a contradiction in terms. The Community within itself, and
with respect to itself, can have no sinister interest . . . The Community
may act wrong from mistake. To suppose that it could from design
would be to suppose that human beings can wish their own misery.3
Hence a democracy, unlike a monarchy or an aristocracy, would do no
unwise thing except in ignorance. And this exception for ignorance was
not a serious one:
There can be no doubt that the middle rank, which gives to science, to
art, and to legislation itself, their most distinguished ornaments, and is the
chief source of all that has exalted and refined human nature, is that por-
tion of the Community of which, if the basis of Representation were ever
so far extended, the opinion would ultimately decide. Of the people be-
neath them, a vast majority would be sure to be guided by their advice
and example.4
2 McCulloch, a somewhat underrated man, again challenged Smith here; see "Naviga-
tion Laws," Edinburgh Review, May 1823.
'The Article otn Government (reprinted from the Supplement to the Encyclopedia
Britannica [London 1829]), p. 7.
'Ibid., p. 32.


---Economics-1965-0-05.txt---
Education of the masses, and their instinctive reverence for the wis-
dom of their middle class leaders, those ornaments of society, would
thus insure that the democratic state would seldom stray far from the
public good. The argument meant that at the time the essay was writ-
ten the American government was a reliable instrument of public wel-
fare and 50 years later England's government would become so.5
It would be possible to document at length this proposition that the
classical economists objected chiefly to unwise governimental interven-
tion in economic life, but I shall give only two instructive examples.
The first example is provided by that fine Irish economist, Mounti-
fort Longfield. Apropos of certain dubious programs to assist the
laborer he wrote, "here Political Economy is merely a defensive sci-
ence, which attempts to prevent the injudicious interference of spec-
ulative legislation" [3, p. 18]. This sounds suitably conservative, but
let us continue. Years later, as a witness before a Royal Commission on
Railways, he complained that his timid fellow directors of the Great
Southern and Western Railway underestimated the long-run elasticity
of demand for rail service. To produce the necessary courage he pro-
posed that the government appoint a director with unlimited power to
vary the rates of each railroad, with the government taking half of any
resulting profits and compensating all of any resulting losses.6 Long-
field wanted not laissez faire but half fare.
The second example is the major controversy provoked by the cam-
paigns for the ten-hour day for women in factories, which reached suc-
cess in 1847. This was one of the first of the modern English interven-
tions in the contracts of competent adults, and it invited excommuni-
cation by the economic divines. This Factory Act was in fact opposed
with vigor by two important economists, Torrens and Senior, but ex-
plicitly not as a violation of natural right. Torrens prefaced his criti-
cism with a passage that reads better than it reasons:
The principle of non-interference can be applicable to those circum-
stances only, in which interference would be productive of mischief; in
Mill's essay elicited a brilliant attack by Macaulay, who turned MAill's argument that  every man seeks only his own interests against the plea for universal suffrage:
That the property of the rich minority can be made subservient to the pleasures of  the poor majority will scarcely be denied. But Mr. Mill proposes to give the poor  majority power over the rich minority. Is it possible to doubt to what, on his own
principles, such an arrangement must lead?
The argument is carried to an interesting prediction: "As for America, we appeal to the  twentieth century," "Mill's Essay on Government," in Critical, Historical and Miscel-  laneous Essays (New York 1873), II, pp. 36-37, 40.
' Royal Commission on Railways, Evidence and Papers Relating to Railways in Ireland
(1866), pp. 126-30, 359-60.


---Economics-1965-0-06.txt---
all those cases in which the interference of the central authority in the
transactions between man and man is capable of effecting good or avert-
ing evil, laissez faire is a criminal abandonment of the functions for the
performance of which a central authority is established and maintained.7
Hence Torrens, and equally Senior,8 criticized the ten-hour bill because
it would lower weekly wages, increase production costs, and reduce
employment by impairing the competitive position of the British tex-
tile industry abroad.
Both Senior and Torrens died in 1864, so they had adequate time,
one would think, to have tested their predictions of the effects of the
ten-hour law. It is wholly characteristic of the insulation of discussions
of policy from empirical evidence that no such study was undertaken
by them, or by anyone else.
James Mill's oldest son, surprisingly enough, put up a stronger case
against state control of economic life than his much more conservative
father had. John Stuart did not follow his father in accepting the in-
variable wisdom of the democratic state, possibly because he was writ-
ing well after the Reform Act.9 He rested the case much more on the
defense of individual liberty, and fully three of the five reasons he gave
for favoring laissez faire as a practical maxim were variations on the
importance of the dignity, independence, self-reliance, and development
of the individual [7, Bk. V, Ch. 11] .
Although I reckon myself among the most fervent admirers of in-
dividualism, even for other people, I must concede that the younger
Mill's position was ambiguous. He does not tell us how to determine
whether a given public policy frees or inhibits individuals. Suppose I
contemplate a program of public housing. If I bribe or force people
into such housing, of course I have reduced their area of choice and
responsibility. But I have also, I presumably hope, given a generation
of children a chance to grow up in quarters that are not grossly unsan-
itary and inadequate for physical and moral health. Mill does not tell
us whether this policy fosters or inhibits individualism-although I
strongly suspect that he would have favored public housing, as he did
free public education and limitation of hours of work for young people.
If an economist is to be a moral philosopher, however-and I have no
doubt that we would do this well too-he should develop his philosoDhv
' A Letter to Lord Ashley (London 1844), pp. 64-65.
8 Letters on the Factory Act (London 1844).
'He did make some reference to the incompetence of state action: ". . . the great majority  of things are worse done by the intervention of government, than the individuals most in-  terested in the matter would do them, or cause them to be done, if left to themselves" [7, II,  p. 5111. This argument does not play a major role in shaping his attitude, however.


---Economics-1965-0-07.txt---
to a level where its implications for policy become a matter of logic
rather than a vehicle for expressing personal tastes.'0
Let us leap on to Marshall who brought up the rear of this tradition
as of so many others in English economics. He conceded an expanding
potential role to the state, in the control of monopoly, in the housing of
the poor, and in the treatment of poverty generally. Yet he persevered
in his preference for private enterprise wherever possible. The prefer-
ence rested heavily on the belief that bureaucratic management would
be burdensome and inefficient." Marshall at this point wrote the bold-
est sentence of his life:
If Governmental control had supplanted that of private enterprise a
hundred years ago [1807], there is good reason to suppose that our meth-
ods of manufacture now would be about as effective as they were fifty
years ago, instead of being perhaps four or even six times as efficient as
they were then.'2
Yet the "good reason" was never presented, although it was more im-
portant to demonstrate this proposition if true than to answer any
other question to which Marshall devoted a chapter or a book or even
his life. Marshall's other reason for his distrust of government was the
fear that Parliament would become the creature of special interests,
and in particular of the Trade Unions'3-an unknowing but not un-
knowledgeable reversion to Adam Smith!
So much for a century of laissez faire. The main school of economic
individualism had not produced even a respectable modicum of evi-
dence that the state was incompetent to deal with detailed economic
problems of any or all sorts. There was precious little evidence, indeed,
that the state was unwise in its economic activities, unless one was pre-
'0Mill's famous essay, On Liberty, does little to reduce our uncertainty. It is here that
he asserts:
Despotism is a legitimate mode of government in dealing with barbarians, provided
the end be their improvement, and the means justified by actually effecting the ends.
The laws which, in many countries on the Continent, forbid marriage unless the par-
ties can show that they have the means of supporting a family, do not exceed the
legitimate powers of the State....
As the principle of the individual liberty is not involved in the doctrine of Free
Trade . . . (The English Philosophers from Bacon to Mill [Modern Library 1939],
pp. 956, 1035, 1024).
It is not easy to avoid the conclusion that for Mill "liberty" was conveniently well cor-
related with the forms of behavior of which he personally approved.
'Memorials of Alfred Marshall (1925), pp. 274-76, 339 if.; Industry and Trade
(1919), pp. 666-72.
M Memorials, p. 338.
t Official Papers by Alfred Marshall (1926), pp. 395-96.


---Economics-1965-0-08.txt---
pared to accept as evidence selected corollaries of a general theory. The
doctrine of nonintervention was powerful only so long and so far as
men wished to obey.
II
There was no day on which economists ceased to commend reduc-
tions in the government's role in economic life and began to propose its
expansion. The limitation of hours of work for children was supported
well before the attack on the corn laws reached its climax. The statutes
liberalizing dealings in property in the 1830's followed at a distance the
regulation of passenger ships to protect emigrants.
How else could it be? The distinction between ancient police func-
tions admitted by all and new regulatory functions proposed by some
was most elusive. The same economist could and did repel the state
with one hand and beckon it with the other.'4
The expansion of public control over economic life which took place
in the mid-nineteenth century in England, and a trifle later in the
United States, was usually of this sort: a traditional state function was
expanded or a new function was adopted which had close analogies to
traditional functions. Economic effects were usually incidental to pro-
tective effects: the inspection of factories and mines, the sanitation
laws for cities, the embryonic educational system, and most of the con-
trols over railroads were of this sort [9] [4].
One thing did not change at all, however, from the heyday of laissez
faire: no economist deemed it necessary to document his belief that the
state could effectively discharge the new duties he proposed to give to
it. The previous assertions of governmental incompetence were met
only by counter assertion; the previous hopes of wiser uses of govern-
mental powers by a democracy were deemed too prophetic to deserve
the discourtesy of historical test. I shall illustrate this persistent neglect
of empirical evidence with the writings of two economists who have
almost nothing in common except great ability.
The first is Jevons. Governmental operation of an industry was ap-
propriate, Jevons believed, if four conditions were fulfilled: (1) The
work must be of an invariable and routine-like nature, so as to be per-
formed according to fixed rules. (2) It must be performed under the
public eye, or for the service of individuals, who will immediately de-
tect and expose any failure or laxity. (3) There must be very little
capital expenditure, so that each year's revenue and expense account
14Thus McCulloch said of the post office: "It does not seem, though the contrary has
been sometimes contended, that the Postoffice could be so well conducted by anyone
else as by government: the latter alone can enforce perfect regularity in all its subordinate
departments . . ." (Dictionary of Commerce (1854 ed.), article on "Postage").


---Economics-1965-0-09.txt---
shall represent, with approximate accuracy, the real commercial suc-
cess of the undertaking. (4) The operations must be of such a kind
that their union under one all-extensive Government monopoly will lead
to great advantage and economy [1, pp. 355, 279, 338]. On what is
this garbled descriptioin of a municipal water system based?-mature
introspection, of course.
Jevons is equally devoted to the a priori method when he discusses
public regulation. The "Principles of Industrial Legislation" are illus-
trated first with the problem posed by a dangerous machine. Neither
worker nor employer, Jevons says, generally displays due concern for
the dangers that lurk in the unfenced machine.
But there remains one other mode of solving the question which is as
simple as it is effective. The law may command that dangerous machinery
shall be fenced, and the executive government may appoint inspectors to
go round and prosecute such owners as disobey the law [2, p. 4].
Several aspects of Jevons' position are instructive. There is no show-
ing of evidence on the failure of employers and employees to curb
dangerous machinery. There is no showing of evidence that direct con-
trols are simple and effective. Direct controls surely were not effective
in factories too small to catch the inspector's eyes, and it is a com-
pletely open question whether they were effective elsewhere. And
finally, Jevons does not conceive of the possible role of the price system
in supplementing, if not replacing, direct inspection by a law making
employers responsible for accidents.'5
But let us recall who jevons was; he was the economist whose su-
preme genius lay in his demand for empirical determination of theoreti-
cal relationships and his immense resourcefulness in making such de-
terminations. This powerful instinct for empirical evidence spilled over
into a proposal that wherever possible new policies should first be tried
out at the local governmental level: "we cannot," he said, "really plan
out social reforms upon theoretical grounds."'" But, possible or not, he
really so planned out his reformns.
We may learn how a theorist coped with the problem by turning to
my second economist, Pigou. In Wealth and Welfare [8] he recited
four reasons for distrusting the ability of legislatures to control mo-
5 It should be a source of morbid instruction to us, that immediately after laying down
this dogmatic rule on how to treat with dangerous machinery, Jevons denounces those  who view the economist as a "presumptuous theorist, who is continually laying down hard-  and-fast rules for the conduct of other people" [2, p. 81.
16 "Experimental Legislation and the Drink Traffic," The Contemporary Review, 37,  1880, 192 (reprinted in Methods of Social Reform, p. 275). He did not see the potentiali-  ties of empirical study in the absence of formal experiment, however, and denied the  feasibility of a statistical approach ("Experimental Legislation," pp. 184-85).


---Economics-1965-0-10.txt---
nopolies. They were shallow reasons, but what is instructive is that all
of them "can be, in great measure, obviated by the recently developed
invention of 'Commissioners,' that is to say, bodies of men appointed
by governmental authorities for the express purpose of industrial op-
eration or control." IHence the government is now capable of "bene-
ficial intervention in industries, under conditions which would not have
justified such intervention in earlier times" [8, p. 250].
If time were not the most precious thing that one professor can give
to another, I would follow in detail Pigou's travels from this inauspi-
cious beginning. We would be instructed by the evidence which he found
sufficient to a series of propositions on the state's competence:
. . . laws directly aimed at "maintaining competition" are practically cer-
tain to fail of their purpose [8, p. 253].
. . . in respect of industries, where the quality of the output is of supreme
importance and would, in private hands, be in danger of neglect, public
operation is desirable [8, p. 288].
. . . the relative inefficiency of public operation, as compared with private
operation, is very large in highly speculative undertakings, and dwindles
to nothing in respect of those where the speculative element is practically
non-existent.'7
The evidence, you will hardly need be reminded, consisted of a few
quotations from books on municipal trading.
Pigou's views of the competence of the state were, like his predeces-
sors' views, a tolerably random selection of the immediately previous
views, warmed by hope. He felt that reliance upon such loose general
reflections was unavoidable. On the question of whether public or
private operation of an industry would be more efficient in production,
we are told "at the outset, it must be made clear that attempts to con-
duct such a comparison by reference to statistics are fore-doomed to
failure" [8, p. 274]. How is it made clear? Very simply: by pointing
out that it is unlikely that a public and a private enterprise operate
under identical conditions of production. This test of the feasibility of
statistical research would rule out all such research, and of course
Pigou throughout his life accepted this implication.
Let me say that Pigou did not differ from his less illustrious col-
leagues in the superficiality of his judgments on the economic compe-
tence of the state-here he was at least as shrewd and circumspect as
they. He differed only in writing more pages of economic analysis of
fully professional quality than any other economist of the twentieth
century.
Rather than sample other economists, I shall characterize more gen-
1TThe maturing fruit in a later edition; The Economics of Welfare (4th ed., 1932),
p. 399.


---Economics-1965-0-11.txt---
erally their role in the period of growing state control over economic
life. The traditional and inevitable economic functions of the state
such as taxation and the control of the monetary system are not con-
sidered in the following remarks. These functions pose no question of
the desirability of state action and very different questions of the econ-
omist's role in policy. On the basis of a highly incomplete canvass of
the literature, I propose three generalizations.
First, there was a large and growing range of policy issues which
economists essentially ignored. If we examine the English legislation
governing shop closing hours, or pure food and drug inspection, or mu-
nicipal utilities, or railway and truck and ocean transportation, or the
legal status of labor unions, or a host of other questions, we shall find
that as a rule economists did not write on the issue, or appear before
the Royal Commissions, or otherwise participate in the policy formula-
tion. Before 1914 the detachment from contemporary policy was Olym-
pian, thereafter it was mortal but awesome. American economists, per-
haps reflecting their Germanic training, were more interested in policy,
so one can cite examples like John R. Commons on regulation of public
utilities and on workmen's compensation laws, J. B. Clark and a host of
others on the trust problem, and so on. Even here, however, many im-
portant economic policies were (and are still) ignored, among them
pure food laws, wage legislation, fair employment practices acts, the
zoning, of land uses, and controls over the capital markets.
Second, even when economists took an active and direct interest in
a policy issue, they did not make systematic empirical studies to es-
tablish the extent and nature of a problem or the probable efficiency of
alternative methods of solving the problem.
It is difficult to support allegations about the absence of a given type
of scientific work; often the allegation illuminates only the reading
habits of its author. I am reasonably confident, however, that the fol-
lowing subjects were not investigated with even modest thoroughness:
(1) the effects of regulation on the level and structure of prices or rates
of public utilities; (2) the extent to which safety in production proc-
esses and purity in products are achieved by a competitive market and
by a regulatory body; (3) the cost to the community of preventing
failures of financial institutions by the route of suppressing competi-
tion compared with the costs by the route of insurance; (4) the effects
of price support systems for distressed industries upon the distribution
of income, as compared with alternative policies; and (5) the effects
of policies designed to preserve competition. This list is short, but I
submit that the examples are important enough to give credence to my
generalization on the paucity of systematic empirical work on the tech-
niques of economic policy. From 1776 to 1964 the chief instrument


---Economics-1965-0-12.txt---
of empirical demonstration on the economic competence of the state
has been the telling anecdote.
Third, the economist's influence upon the formulation of economic
policy has usually been small. It has been small because he lacked spe-
cial professional knowledge of the comparative competence of the state
and of private enterprise. The economist could and did use his eco-
nomic theory, and it cannot be denied that the economist's economic
theory is better than everyone's else economic theory. But for reasons
to which I shall immediately turn, economic theory has not been an
adequate platform. Lacking real expertise, and lacking also evangelical
ardor, the economist has had little influence upon the evolution of
economic policy.
III
If economists have lacked a firm empirical basis for their policy
views, one miglht expect that guidance could be derived from their
theoretical systems. In fact, to the degree that a theoretical system has
been submitted to a variety of empirical tests, it is a source of more
reliable knowledge than an empirical uniformity in solitary confine-
ment. The theory allows tests of the relationship incorporated in the
theory that are outside the view of the discoverer of the theory, so these
tests are more challenging.
The economists' policy views have in fact been much influenced by
their theories. The vast preference for free international trade is surely
based in good part upon the acceptance of the classical theory of com-
parative costs. The general presumption against direct regulation of
prices by the state is surely attributable in good part to the belief in
the optinmum properties of a competitive price system. The growth of
support among economists for public regulation of economic activities
is at least partly due to the development of the theory of disharmonies
between private and social costs, and partly also to the increasingly
more rigorous standards of optimum economic performance.
If it would be wrong to deny a substantial influence of economic
theory on economists' policy views, it would be wronger still to sug-
gest that the policies follow closely and unambiguously from the gen-
eral theory. Our first example of free trade will suffice to illustrate the
looseness of the connection. Smith supported free trade because he be-
lieved that tariffs simply diverted resources from mnore productive to
less productive fields, and the absence of an explanation for the rates
of exchange between foreign and domestic commodities did not bother
him. A century later Sidgwick argued that on theoretical grounds
tariffs were often beneficial to a nation, but that "from the difficulty
of securing in any actual government sufficient wisdom, strength, and
singleness of aim to introduce protection only so far as it is advanta-


---Economics-1965-0-13.txt---
geous to the community" the statesman should avoid protective duties
[10, pp. 485-86]. To the extent that theory was guiding Sidgwick,
surely it was a theory of government rather than of economics.
There is one primary reason why the theory is not, as a rule, coer-
cive with respect to the policies that a believer in the theory must
accept: a theory can usually be made to support diverse policy posi-
tions. Theories present general relationships, and which part of a
theory is decisive in a particular context is a matter of empirical evi-
dence. Consider the wages-fund doctrine, if I may be permitted to refer
to it without its almost inseparable prefix, notorious. This theory as-
serted that there was a relatively fixed amount to be paid in wages in
the short run, and that if one group got higher wages, other groups
would get lower wages or be unemployed. It followed that if a particu-
lar group of workers formed a union and managed to raise their wages,
other workers would bear the burden, and numerous disciples of the
wages-fund doctrine accepted this policy view."8 But John Stuart Mill
could argue, quite in the opposite direction, that since most workers
would be at a subsistence level, at most the successful union would in-
flict only short-run harm on other workers, whereas its higher income
could be permanent.19 And obviously it is a quantitative question
whether the short-run costs or the permanent benefits were larger.
What is true of the wages-fund theory is true of other theories: an
empirical question always insists upon intruding between the formal
doctrine and its concrete application. The truly remarkable fact is not
that economists accepting the same theory sometimes differ on policy,
but that they differ so seldom. The wide consensus at any time comes,
I suspect, from a tacit acceptance of the same implicit empirical as-
sumptions by most economists. All classical economists accepted as a
fact the belief that wage earners would not save, although they had no
evidence on the matter. All modern economists believe they will never
encounter Edgeworth's taxation paradox, with no more evidence. All
economists at all times accept the universality of negatively sloping
demand curves, and they do so without any serious search for contrary
empirical evidence.
These empirical consensuses have no doubt usually been correct-one
can know a thing without a sophisticated study. Truth was born before
modern statistics. Yet generations of economists also believed that over
long periods diminishing returns would inevitably triumph over techno-
logical advance in agriculture, a view that agricultural history of the
last 100 years has coolly ignored.
A second and lesser source of the loose connection between theory
"For example, J. E. Cairnes, Some Leading Principles of Political Economy (London
1873), pp. 258-60.
19 Principles of Political Economy, Ashley ed. (London 1929), p. 402.


---Economics-1965-0-14.txt---
and policy has been the difficulty of translating theory into policy be-
cause of practical politics or administration. The economist refrains
from drawing a policy conclusion because its implementation would
pose large social or administrative costs. Mill dismissed an income tax
because of the inquisitorial burdens it would put on taxpayers; one
would have thought that he would remember that an earlier inquisition
had been welcomed to Spain. For at least 100 years economists have
recommended that a nation proceed to free trade gradually over a five-
year period to ease the transition, and the period is usually lengthened
if protectionism is on the ascendant. I have often wondered why we
deem it necessary to tell a confirmed drunkard not to reduce his drink-
ing too rapidly.
A third, and fortunately a moderately rare, reason for separating
theory from policy is flagrant inconsistency, usually stemming from
that great source of inconsistency in intelligent men, a warm heart.
Marshall proved-rather unconvincingly, I must say-that the doc-
trine of consumer surplus instructed us to tax necessaries rather than
luxuries [5, p. 467 n.]. The idea was disposed of in a footnote because
it disregarded ability to pay. The economic arguments against mini-
mum wage legislation have usually been refuted by reference to the
need of poorer people for larger incomes.
The essential aimbiguity of general theoretical systems with respect
to public policy, however, has been the real basis of our troubles. So
long as a competent economist can bend the existing theory to either
side of most viable controversies without violating the rules of pro-
fessional work, the voice of the economist must be a whisper in the
legislative halls.
IV
The economic role of the state has managed to hold the attention of
scholars for over two centuries without arousing their curiosity. This
judgment that the perennial debate has refused to leave the terrain
of abstract discourse is true, I believe, of the continental literature as
well as the English and American literature. Economists have refused
either to leave the problem alone or to work on it.
Why have not the effects of the regulatory bodies on prices and
rates been ascertained, even at the cost of a 1 per cent reduction in the
literature on how to value assets for rate purposes? Why have not the
effects of welfare activities on the distribution of income been deter-
mined for an important range of such activities, even at the cost of a 1
per cent reduction in denunciations of the invasion of personal liberty?
Why has not the degree of success of governments in bringing private
and social costs together been estimated, even at the cost of a 1 per


---Economics-1965-0-15.txt---
cent reduction in the literature on consumer surplus? Why have we
been content to leave the problem of policy unstudied?
This variously phrased question can be considered to be a request
for either a formal theory of state action or a set of empirical studies
of the comparative advantages of public and private control.
Consider first the control over economic life as a formal theoretical
problem. Why do we not have a theory to guide us in ascertaining the
areas of comparative advantage of uncontrolled private enterprise,
competitive private enterprise, public regulation, public operation, and
the other forms of economic organization? This theory would predict
the manner in which the state would conduct various economic activi-
ties, such as protecting consumers from monopoly or fraud, assisting
distressed industries and areas, or stimulating inventions. The theory
might yield rules such as that a competitive system is superior for in-
troducing new products, or public enterprise is superior where there are
many parties to a single transaction. That we have not done so is at-
tributable, I conjecture, to two difficulties.
The first difficulty is that the issue of public control had a constantly
changing focus: it was the relations of labor and employers one year,
the compensation to tenants for improvements on farms and the con-
trol of railroad rates the year thereafter. At any one time few areas
of economic life were seriously in dispute: most economic activities
were uncontroversially private or public. That a single theory should
be contrived to guide society in dealing with these various and chang-
ing problems was perhaps too great an abstraction to encourage serious
efforts.
Moreover, and this is the second difficulty, the standard apparatus of
the economist is not clearly appropriate. Ordinary maximizing be-
havior, with the ordinary rewards and obstacles of economic analysis,
does not seem directly applicable to the problem. The bounds of state
competence, and the areas of its superiority over variously controlled
private action, are difficuilt to bring within a coherent theoretical sys-
tem.
In short, the theory of public policy may be a difficult theory to de-
vise, although until we have tried to devise it even this opinion is un-
certain.
A usable theory of social control of economic life was not essential,
however, to professional study of policy: could not the economist make
empirical studies of the effects of various ways of dealing with specific
problems? The state regulates machinery in factories: does this reduce
accidents appreciably? The state regulated the carriage of emigrants
from England and Ireland to the new world-what did the regulations
achieve? A thousand prices hiad been regulated-were they lower or


---Economics-1965-0-16.txt---
stickier than unregulated prices? The empirical answers would ob-
viously have contributed both to public policy and to the development
of a general theory of public and private economy.
Here we must pause, not without embarrassment, to notice that we
could ask for empirical studies in areas traditional to economics as well
as in the netherland of half economics, half political science. We need
not be surprised, I suppose, that we know little of the effects of state
regulation, when we also know very little about how oligopolists be-
have. Marshall's theory that the differences between short- and long-
run prices and profits are regulated by the differences between short- and
long-run reactions of supply will be 75 years old next year. Despite its
immense influence, this theory has yet to receive a full empirical test.
If such basic components of modern economic theory have escaped
tests for quantitative significance, it is hardly surprising that our anti-
trust laws, our motor carrier regulation, and our control of insurance
company investments have also escaped such tests.
Still, there has been a difference. Empirical tests of economic
theories have been made for generations, and with greater frequency
and diligence than we encounter in the area of social experiments. Al-
ready in 1863 Jevons had ascertained the serious fall in the value of
gold consequent upon the Californian and Australian gold discov-
eries-it was 26 per cent over the 13-year period, 1849-62. No such
diligence or ingenuity can be found in the study of state controls at
that time. A half century later Henry Moore was calculating statistical
demand curves; again the study of the effects of public policies was
lagging.
The age of quantification is now full upon us. We are now armed
with a bulging arsenal of techniques of quantitative analysis, and of
a power-as compared to untrained common sense-comparable to
the displacement of archers by cannon. But this is much less a cause
than a consequence of a more basic development: the desire to measure
economic phenomena is now in the ascendant. It is becoming the basic
article of work as well as of faith of the modern economist that at a
minimum one must establish orders of magnitude, and preferably one
should ascertain the actual shapes of economic functions with tolerable
accuracy.
The growth of empirical estimation of economic relationships, please
notice, did not come as a response to the assault on formal theory by
the German Historical School, nor was it a reply to the denunciations
of theory by the American Institutionalists. It has been a slow develop-
ment, contributed to by an earlier development in some natural sci-
ences but mostly by the demonstrated successes of the pioneers of the
quantitative method-the Jevons, the Mitchells, the Moores, the
Fishers.


---Economics-1965-0-17.txt---
It is a scientific revolution of the very first magnitude-indeed I
consider the so-called theoretical revolutions of a Ricardo, a Jevons, or
a Keynes to have been minor revisions compared to the vast implica-
tions of the growing insistence upon quantification. I am convinced
that economics is finally at the threshold of its golden age-nay, we
already have one foot through the door.
The revolution in our thinking has begun to reach public policy, and
soon it will make irresistible demands upon us. It will become incon-
ceivable that the margin requirements on securities markets will be
altered once a year without knowing whether they have even a modest
effect. It will become impossible for an import-quota system to evade
the calculus of gains and costs. It will become an occasion for humor-
ous nostalgia when arguments for private and public performance of
a given economic activity are conducted by reference to the phrase,
external economies, or by recourse to a theorem on perfect competition.
This is prophecy, not preaching. You have listened to sage advice on
what to study and how to study it for well over a century. If you had
heeded this advice, you would have accomnplished almost nothing, but
you would have worked on an immense range of subjects and with a
stunning array of approaches. Fortunately you have learned that al-
though such advice is almost inevitable on such occasions as the retire-
ment of an officer of a professional society, it is worth heeding only
when it is backed by successful examples. I have no reason to believe
that you left your tough-mindedness at home tonight, and I shall re-
spect it. I assert, not that we should make the studies I wish for, but
that no one can delay their coming.
I would gloat for one final moment over the pleasant prospects of
our discipline. That we are good theorists is not open to dispute: for
200 years our analytical system has been growing in precision, clarity,
and generality, although not always in lucidity. The historical evidence
that we are becoming good empirical workers is less extensive, but the
last half century of economics certifies the immense increase in the
power, the care, and the courage of our quantitative researches. Our
expanding theoretical and empirical studies will inevitably and irre-
sistibly enter into the subject of public policy, and we shall develop a
body of knowledge essential to intelligent policy formulation. And
then, quite frankly, I hope that we become the ornaments of demo-
cratic society whose opinions on economic policy shall prevail.
REFERENCES
1. W. S. JEVONS, Methods of Social Reform. London 1883.
2. , The State in Relation to Labour. London 1882.
3. MOUNTIFORT LONGFIELD, Lectures on Political Economy (1834).
4. OLVER MACDONAGH, A Pattern of Government Growth, 1800-60. London
1961.


---Economics-1965-0-18.txt---
5. ALFRED MARSHALL, Principles of Economics, 8th ed. London 1920.
6. JOHN RAMSAY MCCULLOCH, Prinzciples of Political Economny, 1st ed.
London 1825.
7. JOHN STUART MILL, Principles of Political Economy, 1st ed. London 1848.
8. A. C. PIGOU, Wealth and Welfare. London 1912.
9. DAVID ROBERTS, Victorian Origins of the W'Velfare State. New Haven 1960.
10. HENRY SIDGWICK, Principles of Political Economy. London 1883.
11. ADAM SMITH, The Wealth of Nations. Modern Library ed.


---Economics-1966-0-03.txt---
No quantity can increase by compound interest and remain within
finite limits.
-LAWRENCE DENNIS
Man's industrial activities are merely a highly specialized and greatly
developed form of the general biological struggle for existence.
A. J. LOTKA
In Megalopolis the sentiment of friendship wastes away.
-R. M. WEAVER
My concern is to put the population question in temporal and statis-
tical perspective. I pass over classical concern lest numbers become ex-
cessive and Asian and Roman concern lest they not become extensive
enough. I pass over the upward shift of the military and nonmilitary de-
mand for manpower in the Age of Mercantilism and the emergence of a
populationist philosophy. I pass over those who after 1750 rejected
populationism. I begin with Malthus, at the time of whose birth the
world's population numbered just over 750 million, perhaps treble what
it was at the start of the Christian era, though growing faster than ever
before, now that pestilence had been partially tamed and the supply of
the means of existence had become more elastic and more stable.
I. The Malthusian Age: 1800-1930
Malthus may well serve as eponym to the period 1800-1930, since it
was he who conceptualized and put into paradigm the demographic is-
sues which dominated it. At its start Malthus was warning that an un-
fettered stork could visit poverty upon most and prevent realization of
the aspirationls of the Age of Enlightment. At the period's close the
world's rate of population growth was double what it had been in 1800,


---Economics-1966-0-04.txt---
and its annual increment roughly 22 instead of 4 millions. Meanwhile
the world's population had risen from less than a billion to just over
2 billion; that of Europe and the Soviet Union to over a half billion,
nearly triple the 1800 figure. Of Europe's population nearly three per-
sons in ten lived in 248 cities of 100,000 and over, compared with only
about one in thirty in 18 such cities in 1800. Meanwhile the world's
cities of 100,000 and over had risen in number eighteenfold to nearly
700 and their relative population eightfold to 11 per cent of the world
total. It is not entirely surprising, therefore, that Alfred Marshall
could write in 1920 (Principles, preface):
In the present age, the opening out of new countries aided by low
transport charges on land and sea, has almost suspended the tendency
to Diminishing Return . . . and yet, if the growth of population should
continue for very long even at a quarter of its present rate, the aggre-
gate rental value of land for all uses . . may again exceed the aggre-
gate of incomes derived from all other forms of material property.
Nor is it surprising that Malthus's Geometrical Ratio should be redis-
covered in the 1920's [39], and that J. M. Keynes could warn that the
Malthusian Devil had broken his chains in a world ridden by diminish-
ing returns. Overpopulated Europe in particular was threatened, he be-
lieved. The inequality essential to adequate capital formation was un-
likely to be tolerated, and Europe's terms of trade were destined to turn
against her, dependent as she was upon produce imported from a New
World now become subject to diminishing returns. It was questionable,
therefore, if her precarious economy any longer enjoyed a margin of
safety against dislocation, a probable sequel to the treaty of Versailles
[23]. At least four aspects of economists' response to Malthus's Essay
in this period merit attention.
1. Malthus's Essay directed attention to the critical role of limita-
tional factors and to the impact of adverse externalities associated
with population growth. His ultimate limitational factor was land or
"room." He implied, however, that it could be some other source of
man's living budget, should man practice moral restraint. While Eng-
land's marginal per acre wheat yield was only 8 bushels in 1812, the
average having fallen from 24 in 1771 to 22 in 1812 [8, 2nd. ed., pp.
225-26]. M1althus did not draw upon this sort of evidence. Instead he
seems to have reasoned from the limitedness of arable land and its
yields to his expositive theorem that the food supply could grow only 1
/n per quarter-century where n denotes the existing food supply. This
model gives a falling average but not finally a falling incremental rate
of food and population growth as did P. F. Verhulst's logistic curve,
designed in 1838 to reflect the increasing resistance population growth
encountered from increasing density and its concomitants.


---Economics-1966-0-05.txt---
Malthus's model stressed the services of land. This interpretation is
in keeping with K. F. Mather's account of the changes both in man's
demands upon his environment and in the nature of his resource limi-
tations. "A hundred years ago, nearly 80 per cent of all the things men
used were derived from the plant and animal kingdoms, with only about
20 per cent from the mineral kingdom. Today only about 30 per cent
of the things used in industrialized countries come from things that
grow; about 70 per cent have their sources in mines and quarries"
[25, pp. 55-56]. Somne present-day economists, of course, take into ac-
count all or nearly all services, the demand for which derives
significantly from demand for population. They view economic growth
as a process of accumulating capital in all its manifold forms [20, Ch.
14], and population growth as a process of transforming population,
physical environment, and capital of all sorts, as of given time periods,
into population of subsequent time periods. "Life," as A. N. White-
head [38, p. 160] observed, thus becomes "robbery," with human
societies living on other societies and (as A. J. Lotka noted), having
triumphed over their subhuman foes, finding themselves pressed by in-
creasing numbers to struggle with one another. Malthus may thus be
looked upon as an inspirer of post-Darwinian as well as of Darwinian
theories of struggle. Moreover, Malthus, in his rationalization of es-
sential agricultural self-sufficiency, a doctrine that later helped inspire
German agricultural protectionism, reveals himself a defender of bas-
tions of strength against both leveling forces and hordes. "When de-
gree is shak'd," he might have said with Shakespeare, "then enterprise
is sick."
Malthus's emphasis upon limitations to the augmentability of the
food supply was not reasserted again until the close of the century.
For, although natality did not begin generally to decline in Europe
until in or after the 1870's, and then not enough to affect the rate of
population growth significantly, per capita food consumption im-
proved, both because yield per acre had gradually increased and be-
cause food, mainly cereal, was imported in large quantity from land-
rich Eastern Europe and Europe Overseas as well as from some heavi-
ly peopled parts of Asia [14] [8, 3rd ed., pp. 296-301]. Toward the
end of tlhe nineteenth century, one and one-third centuries after Eng-
land began to import cereals on balance, Sir William Crookes (1832-
1919) warned that the question of the food supply "is of urgent
importance today, and it is a life and death question for generations to
come.... England and all civilized nations stand in deadly peril of not
having enough to eat." He pointed to the importance of wheat, the
lowness of yields, and the limited additional acreage suited to sowing
--conditions that would permit world population to overtake world
wheat supplies by 1931. Augmentation of yields and acreage prevented


---Economics-1966-0-06.txt---
the materialization of Sir William's forecast. J. S. Davis, having re-
viewed its basis and nonmaterialization, declared in 1932 that "the
specter of coming dearth of food is a ghost that deserves to be laid"
[13].
The shift in the bias of the resource base from organic to inorganic
facilitated a higher rate of development and some economy in trans-
port already near the beginning of the nineteenth century, if not ear-
lier. It did not become pronounced until later in the century, however.
Thus, between 1880 and 1937, while world population was growing
about two-thirds and its industrial production was almost sextupling,
world metal and fuel production increased 606 and 652 per cent, re-
spectively [14] [31, pp. 248-501. The shift, however, added to the
fear of classical diminishing returns, the additional fear of mineral de-
pletion, analogue of soil-fertility depletion. Already in 1865 W. S. Jev-
ons forecasted that rising costs of coal attendant upon the working
out of the superior seams would depress British industry and trade
[19]. A quarter-century later, there arose even in the United States
concern respecting both soil depletion and unduly rapid mineral ex-
haustion. This concern contributed to the development of the conser-
vation movement later popularized by anti-Malthusian Theodore Roo-
sevelt.
2. Malthus as well as subsequent writers drew attention to the ex-
ternalities associated with population growth, many of them adverse. A
clear-cut distinction was not initially made, however, between exter-
nalities produced directly and externalities produced indirectly
through urban concentration. Malthus and his successors hoped to
control aggregate growth and thus minimize the impact of adverse ex-
ternalities-through institutional and related controls of private origin,
that channeled costs and benefits to responsible and discretionary indi-
viduals and households. He had little confidence in Leviathan. In fact
J. S. Mill was almost alone in believing that under communism-albeit
small-scale communism rather than present-day bureaucratic socialistic
or mixed-economy collectivisms-the feedback system generative of
population-control would be much more effective than it was under non-
communism (Principles, II, i, 3) Concern regarding externalities asso-
ciated with urban growth became both more intense and more re-
search-oriented toward the close of the century. Even Marshall mani-
fested such concern [24].
3. In the wake of this growing awareness of externalities there de-
veloped interest in improvement of the quality of populations. Vhile
few economists had the faith of a Helvetius or a Bentham in the ca-
pacity of education to eliminate inequality, not many attached to re-
productive selection the importance assigned it by F. Galton's follow-


---Economics-1966-0-07.txt---
ers or by some exponents of Social Darwinism. After all, it was eco-
nomic environment with which economists worked, and it was their
usual view as well as Marshall's that A. C. Pigou [29, pp. 113-14, 121]
expressed when, despite his awareness of the importance of genetic se-
lection, he said, "The environment of one generation can produce a
lasting result, because it can affect the environment of future genera-
tions. Environments, in short, as well as people, have children." He in-
ferred, furthermore, that "improvement in the distribution of the divi-
dend may be expected actually to diminish the proportion of the chil-
dren born from inferior stocks" whose untrammeled propagation re-
mained "notorious." Pigou seems to have been less alert than Ricardo
(Principles, Ch. 31), however, to the possible depression of the de-
mand for labor, especially among the inferior members of society, by
accumulating capital. Otherwise he might have put more stress upon
eugenics as well as upon adverse effects of life in large, input-short
families.
4. Corollary to Malthus's thesis is the notion that there exists,
under given conditions in a given state, an optimum population size
and an optimum population growth rate. J. S. Mill was the first to give
some precision to the former notion. "After a degree of density has
been attained, sufficient to allow the principal benefits of combination
of labour," wrote Mill in 1848, "all further increase tends in itself to
mischief, as regards the average condition of the people." Such density
had been attained in England. Mechanical inventions could, of course,
increase average income, but they would increase it even more were
numbers not to grow (Principles, I, xiii, 2-3; IV, vi, 2). Unlike present-
day technicians with their dehumanizingly exclusive emphasis upon
know-how, Mill was concerned also with know-why-he was not pre-
pared to trade natural grandeur, solitude, "the spontaneous activity of
nature," and other free goods for the junkyards and carscapes and de-
teriorating landscapes so characteristic of unaesthetic twentieth-century
societies seemingly bent upon frustrating Henry Ford's desire that his
car give even the man of little means easy access to "God's great open
spaces." Mill would probably have endorsed B. A. Weisbrod's sugges-
tion that account be taken of the willingness of nonusers of facilities
(e.g., a park) to pay for the option of using them in the future, given
that total revenue from users falls short of costs [37].
Mill's view was endorsed 78 years later by A. B. Wolfe, foremost
economic demographer, who declared that "economically, the desidera-
tum is . . . to obtain, in return for whatever expenditure of effort the
people may regard as normal and proper, the largest permanently
practicable, per capita product" [15, p. 68]. The population permit-
ting this woulld be of optimum size. WVolfe did not accept, any more


---Economics-1966-0-08.txt---
than had J. S. Mill, tile inference of A. M. Carr-Saunders [6] (and
earlier Henry George) that a population normally assumed optimum
size. Mill emphasized, as had Jeremy Bentham and others, the need
for contraception, a need increasingly stressed during the Malthusian
period [18]. Only a tremendous stimulus resulting in an improvement
of "signal character," such as had been produced in France by the
Revolution, could change men's habits, elevate their standards, and
reduce their natality, Mill observed (Principles, II, xi, 2); and J. B.
Clark (Essentials, Ch. 19) 59 years later expressed a somewhat
modified version of this view. Not until the 1950's, however, did H.
Leibenstein and R. Nelson incorporate a Mill-like view into growth
models entailing the displacement of populations from the Malthusian
equilibria in which they had been trapped.
The Malthusian period witnessed many improvements in both the
art of population projection and the quantity and quality of statistical
data, together with the instruments employed to analyze them. A
major objective was to eliminate distortions occasioned in crude mea-
sures of fertility or mortality by differences or abnormalities in age,
sex, and marital composition. Gross and net reproduction rates came
into use toward the close of the period, some years after they had been
anticipated; they made it possible to determine the rate of increase per
generation in a population of stable age distribution, a model de-
veloped by A. J. Lotka as early as 1911. The demographer could then
cope with changes in age composition associated with adjustment to
constant age-specific fertility and mortality rates, though not with un-
predictable variations in mortality, fertility, or sex composition [16,
Ch. 12]. Population forecasters therefore resorted to projections of
present populations based upon various sets of assumed age-specific
fertility and mortality rates. Recourse was had also to logistic curves
fitted to past populations, a method originated by Verhulst and redis-
covered by Raymond Pearl and L. J. Reed, who forecast a maximum
world population of about 2,646 million and a maximum American
population of about 197 million as of around A.D. 2100 [10].
II. A Time of Reconsideration: 1930-65
Opinion on population issues was homogeneous during the period
1800-1930. All but Marxian opinion, whether critical or affirmative of
Malthus's views, took his model as a point of departure. Not so in the
period 1930-65, or perhaps better, the period 1925-65. Voices were
many and discordant, and divers earlier views were rejeCted. Honored
in the breach was Jacob Viner's advice to this body (in 1938), that the
economic theorist "is the special custodian for society of the long view
in economic matters" (Am. Econ. Rev., March 1939, p. 9) as well as


---Economics-1966-0-09.txt---
the discoverer of hidden costs; or Winston Churchill's observation that
"a hopeful disposition is not the sole qualification to be a prophet"; or
Walter Bagehot's reflection that "it is a question whether the benevo-
lence of mankind does most good or harm" (Physics and Politics, Ch.
5).
First of the earlier views to be reversed was that imbedded in the
population forecasts (or projections as they now are more cautiously
labeled) of the 1930's. Already in 1895 Edwin Cannan forecast a vir-
tual cessation of population growth in England and Wales by 1950. In
the late 1920's and 1930's it was inferred that the populations of most
Western countries would soon become stationary, the American at a
level below 200 million. Even eventual decline was anticipated. Net
reproduction rates were near unity, and sometimes still falling. Econo-
mists began exploring economic life in hypothetically stationary or de-
clining populations. Publicists and reformers, some of whom may have
recognized an opportunity to clothe welfare-state philosophy in demo-
graphic terms, refurbished old arguments for a family wage as well as
diverse subsidies to parents, with the result that family allowance sys-
tems won widespread approval. Inadequately explored in a still-Kip-
lingesque West, however, were implications of the fact that while the
rate of population growth in a politically fissured Western world was
falling, that of underdeveloped lands, containing about two-thirds of
the world's people, was incipiently high and potentially rising.
By the late 1940's, however, changes in both fertility and population
prospects were evident. Not only was death control augmenting natu-
ral increase in the underdeveloped world, natality and natural increase
had risen in the developed world, in part as a response to rising em-
ployment and the emergence of the welfare state. Although fertility
later moved somewhat below its postwar peak, population projections
were revised upward, sometimes by a factor of 2 or more. Thus the
population anticipated for the United States in 2000 was set above 300
million instead of below 200 million [10]. Still, should age-specific fer-
tility move downward, as it now seems to be doing, postulated growth
rates will be reduced. Real cohort analysis, designed in the 1940's to
replace use of synthetic cross-sectional cohorts, should presently
confirm whether current fertility declines reflect a decline in desired
family size and signal the advent of a growth rate of only about 1 per
cent. In the 1930-70 interval, of course, population will have increased
more than anticipated in the 1930's, about 283 million, or 42 per cent, in
the developed world, and 1,271 million, or 91 per cent, in the underde-
veloped world.
A second reversal of interpretation relates to population growth and
capital formation. G. Cassel [7, pp. 134-35, 1491 had implied that a 1


---Economics-1966-0-10.txt---
per cent rate of population growth absorbs annual savings approximat-
ing 5 per cent of national income, but he did not anticipate excessive
saving. Such confidence gave way, however, to fear of the advent of a
stationary population, despite Mill's earlier description of its advan-
tages. "Investment" (or savings-offsetting expenditure) had been freed
meanwhile of its moralistic trappings, and made a, and after the ap-
pearance of Keynes's General Theory in 1936, the strategic variable in
employment theory and policy. Given little population growth, invest-
ment would be inadequate because provision would no longer have to
be made for large population increments, and at the same time there
would be too little inclination to invest in improving the environment,
quality, and productivity of those already here or replacing those here.
This concern reflected an excessive estimate of the difficulties sup-
posedly attendant upon adjustment from a higher to a lower rate of
population growth, in an economy made sensitive to the contractile im-
pact of the acceleration principle by a high ratio of reproductive
wealth to population. In fact, J. R. Hicks, in his review of the General
Theory (Econ. Jour., June 1936, p. 252), declared population to ble
Keynes's "strongest card," and three years later added (Value and
Capital, Ch. 24) that the "whole Industrial Revolution of the last two
hundred years" had been "such a disappointing episode in human his-
tory" because (perhaps) it had been "nothing else but a vast secular
boom, largely induced by the unparalleled rise in population." Alvin
Hansen clearly posed the problems in his address to this body in 1939
(Am. Econ. Rev., March 1940, pp. 1-15), at a time when economists
were not yet writing about compensatory public investment in an afflu-
ent society. There were critical responses to exponents of stagnation
theory, of course, especially G. W. Terborgh's respecting the favor-
able behavior of investment in a past marked by falling popu-
lation growth [34], and those of economists who believed that small
adjustments in a flexible economy could easily bring annual savings
and offsets thereto into balance and assure "full" employment in an
economy whether population was growing appreciably or not. Man
need not be slave to the stork in the twentieth century any more than
he was in the late nineteenth. Ansley Coale [12, p. 371] aptly capped
this theme in 1960 when he pointed to implications of current Ameri-
can fertility levels:
Thus a continued secular economic boom could gain partial support
from a continued baby boom. But after a century this trend would
produce about a billion Americans, and after two centuries some six
billion. There must be a better way to stimulate employment.
After all, it should be quite easy to adjust saving and/or offsets thereto,


---Economics-1966-0-11.txt---
along with other significant variables, to changes in population size and
age composition, both of which are quite predictable in the short run.
Until recently, the inverse of the stagnation argument, the thesis that
excessive population growth generates inflation, especially in under-
developed countries, received little attention.
Perhaps the greatest reversal of opinion in the period 1930-65 is
that relating to the role played by land and other natural resources in
economic development and the disenthralling of populations from Mal-
thusian traps. The importance of this role has been played down for a
variety of reasons. First, investment in scientific discovery, applied
technology, and education has been found to account for a major frac-
tion of the increase in output per head in advanced countries, although
recently the need to complement this type of investment with physical
capital has again begun to be emphasized. Second, input of the services
of land and natural resources per unit of GNP has greatly decreased in
advanced countries. The composition of an individual's consumption
changes as his income rises and becomes more biased toward products
with relatively small resource content. This is reflected in a below-
unity income elasticity of demand for most organic and inorganic raw
materials. Furthermore, considerable economy has been achieved in
the use of raw materials, with the result that resource-service input
per unit of output of many specific types of products has fallen. For
example, the input of cropland service per unit of output of agricultur-
al products declined by nearly half in the United States between
1930-32 and 1960-62. In short, changes in the character of both de-
mand and technology have slowed down the growth of various material
requirements, sometimes to the pace of population growth and some-
times even below it. Third, discovery and technological change, to-
gether with substitution at producer and consumer levels, have greatly
augmented both the visible and the immediately potential stock of
fuel, mineral, and related sources of natural-resource services. Man, it
is supposed, is confronted by chains of natural-resource substitutes
which modern molecular engineering and alchemy can subvert to his
purposes, replacing links that weaken and elevating inferior sources
(e.g., taconite rock) as well as substituting less expensive for more ex-
pensive sources of particular natural-resource service needs [1] [33].
For example, energy should prove producible in large amounts through
fission assisted by breeder reactors, and in almost unlimited amounts
should fusion prove technologically and economically feasible.
A measure of parochialism permeates this optimistic account. It neg-
lects the Apostle Matthew's dictum that "for whosoever hath to him
shall be given, and he shall have abundance," and the observation in
Deuteronomy "that man doth not live by bread only." Skill and capi-


---Economics-1966-0-12.txt---
tal, so essential to overcoming mineral and agricultural shortages, are
generally least abundant where needs are greatest. Should income grow
as expected in the underdeveloped world, natural-resource shortages
will be intensified, probably in greater measure than technical capacity
to countervail them. Similarly, diets reportedly are quantitatively and/
or qualitatively most deficient in Asia, Africa, and parts of Latin
America-in areas commonly short of skill and capital, even when not
also of land. There one finds not even a basis for the inverted Mal-
thusianism of Western optimists which equates solution of the popula-
tion problem with a full stomach. One also finds neglected two income-
depressing effects of population growth: (a) absorption of nonagricul-
tural land which might better have supplied man with amenities; (b)
steady diminution of the amount available per capita of suitably situ-
ated space and goods and services formerly free.
Neglected above all is man's conversion of such "parameters of
state" as atmosphere, topography, and climate into variables with the
result that conditions of life and interspecies equilibrium-never very
stable-are changing. I,otk.a anticipated this possibility in his remark-
able Elements of Physical Biology (1925). Malthus had treated physi-
cal environment as a constant even though man had for many centu-
ries been modifying this environment [35]. But then Malthus lived
before the goat had been replaced by bulldozer, dragline, and nuclear
explosives, and man had become the most destructive of biotypes.
After all, even the physicist, R. A. Millikan, could write as late as
1928: "The energy available through the disintegration of radioac-
tive, or any other, atoms may perhaps be sufficient to keep the corner
peanut and popcorn man going, on a few street corners in our larger
towns," but no more (Science, Sept. 28, 1928, p. 284). Today, man is
confronted not only by denudation and erosion of soil as well as possi-
ble mineral shortages but also by the threat that accumulating filth
will convert his promised great society into a merely gray society. Wit-
ness here in America endless dumping of trash (four pounds per per-
son per day), lead contamination in excess of that experienced in an-
cient Rome, and water and air pollution soon destined to cost above $7
billion yearly. Merely cleaning uip the nation's polluted waters could
cost over $50 billion. Indeed, some hold, J. K. Galbraith had better la-
beled ours an effluent society than an affluent one, perhaps so effluent
that many of its members have lost their sensitivity to effluvia. Possi-
bly more threatening still are the changes man is producing "in the
geochemical cycles of the elements," thereby "disturbing their natural
balance in the uppermost geospheres." Thus since 1900 the carbon
dioxide content of the air has risen about 10 per cent and is still rising
[30, pp. 365-66, 546-47]. In short, multiplying man, forced by popula-


---Economics-1966-0-13.txt---
tion pressure to cope wvith emerging shortages in his micro-environ-
ment, may be worsenin(, his mnacro-environment and constraining the
adaptive potentialities which have gotten him where he is.
Optimum theory has been elaborated and clarified in recent decades.
Vhile account has been taken of the content of the welfare index being
maximized, it has been noted that output per man-hour may constitute
a quite satisfactory index, insofar as deviations from any other index
can be resolved through exchange supplemented by taxes. It has been
observed also that, while population size may condition a society's ca-
pacity for reducing income inequality, it is size of economy much more
than size of population which facilitates economies of scale, competi-
tiveness, flexibility, etc. The circumstances governing the response of
welfare indicators to variation in population size have been found to
include extent of economies of scale, interindustry fit, external eco-
nomic relations, tastes, technology, length of time horizon, burden of
defense or tribute and foreign aid, and so on. Deviation of actual pop-
ulation size from optimum size does not tend to induce a decline in fer-
tility unless this deviation reduces the rate of growth of income below
the expected level; this rarely happens in the neighborhood of the opti-
mium, and is not very likely when other income-increasing forces are
ascendant. It is possible, of course, that as man's time horizon is ex-
tended thbrough prolonlgation of life and institutionalization of expecta-
tions, sensitivity to possible deceleration of income growth increases.
Little attention has been given to the stability conditions surrounding
an optimum; yet failure to act in conformity with these undermines
some of the conditions defining this optimum.
Today emphla-sis is placed less on the optimum as such than on the
broader question: Is additional population growth advantageous? Will
it elevate or reduce the rate of growth of per capita income with which
other indicators of welfare are highly correlated? Will it contract or
extend the range of choice? After all, in much of the world average
population density exceeds the optimum level; moreover, many states
are too small to accommodate a modern economy, even given a great
deal of external exchange. In those countries, moreover, where a larger
population would be advantageous, it is highly desirable that incre-
ments be added slowly, since a high growth rate sacrifices population
quality and equipment to sheer quantity (e.g., in Latin America and
Africa). Major issues tend to be examined when inquiry is directed to-
ward assessment of the effects of further growth. Such inquiry led Rich-
ard Stone to ascertain how population growth retarded a society's ap-
proach to F. P. Ramsey's state of Bliss. It directs attention to the ad-
verse input-absorbing externalities generated by population growth in
general and through increasing megalopolitan concentration-usually


---Economics-1966-0-14.txt---
ina grcater measure than associated external eConomies (if any). It
prompts examination not merely of effects associated with short-run
allocation and partially offsetting responses to disadvantages of popu-
lation growth, but also of the longer-run consequences of alternative
uses of inputs transformable into population. It reveals how population
growth and megalopolitan concentration tend to bureaucratize society
and dissipate individual autonomy [32 ].
The optimum concept has been applied to cities as well as to nation-
al populations, though with even less success, because of the heteroge-
neity of cities. Some attention is also being directed to the advantages
and disadvantages of city growth. Much of the work currently done on
cities amounts to little more than empiricist inquiry, insensitive to the
nmanner in which distortion of exchange in the urban realm, especially
distortion of key exchanges, may distort the urban structure and im-
pose suboptimal conditions of existence upon the passive majority.
Turning from optima to change in population composition, we find
two dimensions of increasing concern. The first is age structure.
France's population was the first to shed the child-ridden Oriental age
structure common to populations in Malthus's day. Modern age struc-
tures, together with increases in the proportion of the population over
60-65 years, are concomitants of relatively low fertility; prolongation
of life, unless beyond 70, affects this proportion very little. Of course,
should it be forgotten that death is essential to progress and should
man become immortal, a really Struldbruggian society could develop.
For then, given a Gross Reproduction Rate of 1.5, the proportion over
60 would approach 41.4 per cent [11, p. 40]. There would still be a
way of escape, however; for, by raising the GRR to 3.0, the propor-
tion aged 60 and over could be held to 9.1 per cent. Man would thus be
faced with a choice-between life in a nursing home and life in a sar-
dine can. Fortunately, the bad as well as the good still die, though per-
haps in suboptimal proportion. There is need for hardheaded socioeco-
nomic gerontological inquiry into the allocation, employment, income,
and related implications of a doubling or more of the fraction of the
population over 60 or 65 years since (say) 1870 when only about 5 per
cent of the males were 65 or older and many of these lived in nonurban
areas.
Perhaps the central economic task flowing from this aging is that of
optimizing, over the life span of the representative individual, of his
work-time and his discretionary time. Presumably, this arrangement
would result in greater vacation time than now-say six weeks per
year-and deferment of retirement until age 70. Such arrangement is
currently threatened by corporate trade union, and governmental bu-
reaucrats who, abhorring discriminating decision as the devil abhors


---Economics-1966-0-15.txt---
holy water, would fix the age of retirement at or below 60 when one
still looks forward to 17-21 years of life. Such a policy would produce
an army of endowed, if not particularly happy, loafers. Even in the ab-
sence of continuing inflation, decrease in the ratio of work life to re-
tired life by four-sevenths since 1900 entails an offsetting increase in
saving for retirement which has not usually been achieved. And even
then, as a rule, the retiree does not share appreciably in the fruits of
technical progress. Solution consists in part in the re-establishment of
flexible, discriminatory wages, periodic worker retraining, possible job
reassignment, portable retirement provisions, price stability, and an ev-
olution in work scheduling. The alternative could be a variant of
Townsendism.
The second problem-ridden structural change accompanying popula-
tion growth is not mere urbanization (which within 30 years, ac-
cording to K. Davis, will gather over half the world's population into
cities of above 100,000), but the concentration of so large a proportion
of the population in megalopolitan centers which appear to be uneco-
nomic devourers of time and capital as in the past they were devourers
of population. This concentration appears to be the product of an in-
determinate mechanism, made up in the part of random variables and
fostered by disparities between social costs and social benefits as well
as by neglect of adverse externalities associated with concentration. In
short, the urban growth pattern may be stochastically determined,
with chance working on the side of the largest centers and in keeping
with Zipf's generalized Paretian, or rank-size, "the-higher-the-fewer
rule." Here we may not have a causal mechanism operative, since, as
M. G. Kendall [21] notes, "chance can mimic choice," nor do we have
simple, unlagged cause-effect relationships [22]. There could, of
course, be something like G. Myrdal's cumulative causation at work,
or perhaps a cuimulative process somewhat analogous to that described
by WV. J. Baumol in his "theory of cumulative deterioration" [2].
What is of immediate concern, however, is whether the mechanism
at work produces an optimum distribution of activities in space and of
population among cities. The outcome, whether good or bad, is almost
irreversible, underpinned as it is by fixed capital, special interests, in-
ertia, subsidies, and so on. That the outcome is optimal is to be doubted
despite the clamor of hyperurbanists. They forget that vulnerability
to attack by missile and from the air is positively associated with pop-
ulation concentration. It is essential that one take into account all
costs as well as all benefits associated with large-city expansion, so re-
mindful of the growth of polyp colonies; only then is the marginal net
effect ascertainable. Excessive concentration of population in large
cities not only tends to dissipate gemeinschaftlicke ties, and generate


---Economics-1966-0-16.txt---
alienation; it is also inimical to individual-political and consumer sov-
ereignty. Mathematically, the larger the city, the smaller is the relative
size of the resolute minority that could rule it [28]. Politically and
psychologically, the larger the city, the weaker tends to be the belief of
the voter that he can do anything to influence the ruling camarilla and
improve his community. Finally, as political power is channeled into
the hands of city-ruling minorities, the taxing power of the central
government tends to be placed increasingly at the disposal of these mi-
norities and perhaps in keeping with what one may call the Augustus
Caesar principle of public finance. (You will recall Seutonius's ac-
count. Caesar once considered discontinuing the practice of dis-
tributing free grain, but he decided a,gainst it even though it was injur-
ing Italian agriculture. "I did not carry out my purpose," he said, be-
cause I felt "sure that the practice would one day be renewed by some-
one ambitious of popular favor.")
Wh'ile notable contributions have been made to the economic analy-
sis of fertility [3, 12], the explanation of its short-run behavior has
not yet been made as economic as possible, nor have the actual and the
potential feedback connections of household with economy been ade-
quately identified and explored. If one allows for random variables and
treats certain fertility-affecting elements (relig,ious and other values,
rural-urban and educational differences) as slhort-run constants, one
should be able to explain changaes in gross reproduction in terms of
chaniges in price structure and opportunity costs and of movements
along curves of demand for children and of shifts of both these curves
and curves representing costs of children. For a change in fertility
reflects the response, usually lagged, of actual and potential households
to changes in (a) the prices and character of alternatives to children,
and (b) the benefits anticipated to be derivable from children and/or
changes in the input costs of children, together with additions (sub-
tractions) in costs associated with changes in family economic status.
It must be assumed, of course, that fertility is easily controlled. This
assumption is quite tenable in advanced countries, now that earlier
contraceptive methods, including the unreliable "safe-period"-in
Spain children who owe their existence to failure of this method are
eponymously described as Oginitos after the method's discoverer (New
Leader, Sept. 13, 1965, p. 7)-have been supplemented by contra-
ceptive pills and cheap, effective intrauterine devices. It is essential
also that the analyst view the child as the partial analogue of both a
consumer's and a producer's durable good. Then the analytical as well
as the empirical problem becomes one of isolating the determinants
that affect the demand for, and the supply of, children at household
levels, and thus give rise, along with household interdependence, to ag-
gregate demand and supply functions.


---Economics-1966-0-17.txt---
Thhe demand for children is not quite parallel, however, to that for
ordinary durable goods. The relevant time interval is too long to per-
mit a household to test cx ante expectations respecting children by ex
post experienlce. No one can foresee what the genetic grab bag will
bring forth, probably a useful citizen, possibly a genius, perhaps a
hooligan or a cretin, but by then corrective response may no longer be
possible. There is less uncertainty, of course, on the supply side. Most
direct costs are fairly predictable, and optional additional costs need
not be incurred unless they fall short of the prospective benefits. Less
predictable is the impact of trade and longer cycles, or of increases in
uinemployment consequent upon upswings in the relative number of
young job-seekers, cobweb-like sequels to earlier upsurges of births
[12]. Less predictable also, especially in a inodern demand-oriented
economy, is the response over time of a household to its increasing ac-
cess to durable goods and imperfectly foreseen complements thereto.
For in this sector of constumption the income elasticity of demand can
easily rise above unity and, if this rise is widespread enough, divert in-
come from support of procreation to purchase of durable products and
complements. The full significance of the emergence of durable goods
for reproductive and other activities has yet to be analyzed adequate-
ly. Indeed, the Ford Foundation might fund a project permitting a cor-
porate body of social scientists to follow through life a representative
cohort, or better still a sequence of cohorts chosen at (say) 10-year
intervals, and ascertain how and why patterns of expenditure change
and with it fertility and related behavior.
Underdeveloped countries, United Nations demographers find, differ
from developed in respect of both fertility and indices of moderniza-
tion. Gross reproduction is below 2 in all developed countries, and
above 2 in the underdeveloped world which includes nearly all African,
Asian, and Latin American countries. Within the modern world there
is no correlation between variation in indicators of modernization and
variation in fertility; and within the underdeveloped world there is
only slight correlation. The data do suggest, however, that there exists
a threshold, or a set of thresholds, movement beyond which by indica-
tors of modernization is quite likely to be accompanied by a percepta-
ble downward movement of fertility, though not by one immediately
adequate to offset falling mortality.
Convincing evidence of a widespread, imminent, and pronounced de-
cline of fertility and natural increase remains to be uncovered. The
United Nations reports: "the launching of new countries upon the
transition from high to low fertility seems to have been temporarily
halted." The evidence reveals no continuing inverse relation between
population density and fertility in keeping with the logistic theory;
only a mildly inverse relation is found in both the developed and the


---Economics-1966-0-18.txt---
underdeveloped world. The pressure of numbers upon family resources
generated by the decline of infant and child mortality has not yet
widely reduced births per mother. Governments not only show little
awareness of the urgency of the population problem; they even cush-
ion the incidence of child-rearing costs on responsible parents. The
Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, together with in-
dividual countries, has sanctioned making contraceptive assistance in-
ternationally available, but governments have provided little incentive
thereto [36].
The economic implications of United Nations studies of fertility and
population growth are at least fourfold. First, for a number of dec-
ades population growth will absorb large amounts of physical and per-
sonal capital that might otherwise have been used to elevate per capita
income. For example, ceteris paribus, per capita income can grow at
least one percentage point more per year, given a zero instead of a
two-per-cent-per-year rate of population growth. Second, little explan-
atory insight is provided by economic models which merely suggest
that income will permanently outstrip numbers, but which are un-
equipped with feedback mechanisms that produce at least limited down-
ward movements of fertility. It is necessary to show that movements
of income generate even greater relative demands for present and fu-
ture goods, services, and leisure; that elasticity of consumption expec-
tations exceeds elasticity of income expectations. Then, if the standard
of life rose ratchet-like, but always guarded against decline by pawl-
like acquired tastes, one might count upon the retention of internalized
standards. Third, the apparent existence of a set of interrelated thresh-
olds suggests that international differences in shorter-run fertility-
affecting constants are dissipatable througlh subjection to socioeco-
nomic solvents. Fourth, even though these parametrical differences
exist, it is certain that fertility can be greatly reduced, given availabili-
ty of contraceptives, if having more than a stipulated number of chil-
dren, say three, is economically penalized instead of subsidized as at
present. That it would pay the governments of underdeveloped coun-
tries to reward those who curb their fertility has been demonstrated by
Stephen Enke who estimates one dollar thus spent to be worth about
$100 of other forms of aid [ 17].
III. The Future
Teclhnology, prudence, and reason could generate a bright future.
That it will be bright, however, is questionable, given an unfettered
stork, together with continuing escalation of submarginal man in a
world of Freudian irresponsibility and distribution according to al-


---Economics-1966-0-19.txt---
leged need rather than demonstrated performance. Just as relative im-
munity of an organ's cells to division and mutation causes that organ
to age, so does the relative immunity of a society to rigorous selection
tend to bring about its deterioration. It may be well, however, for one
interpreting these portentous trends to recall what Samuel Johnson
wrote in the preface to his dictionary about the prophecies he had
made earlier in his launching prospectus: "I . . . now begin to fear that
I have indulged expectation which neither reason nor experience justi-
fy." Yet, mankind does appear to be at a demographic crossroads,
along which weak homeostatic response under current conditions may
not properly direct man. Population growth still resembles too closely
Newton's "uniform motion in a straight line," unrelieved by the pro-
spective emergence of fertility-controlling "impressed forces."
Consider India. Down one of the crossroads could lie a sanguine fu-
ture. For, as S. J. Patel suggests, the economic distance between India
and present-day America might be bridged, though hardly in a half-
century; the difference between Indian and American real agricultural
output per capita could be removed in some 50 years; that in other
sectors, in a longer period. Yet, as Coale and Hoover have shown,
there can be little improvement in the average Indian's lot if India
persists down the road of population growth [26].
Mlore generally, to paraphrase President Kennedy's warning against
war: Unless man halts population growth, population growth will halt
man. As matters stand, two demographic processes are bound to bedevil
man increasingly and, if they are not soon resolved, will greatly di-
minish whatever prospect he h1as of establishing a society both peace-
ful and great, both moral and aesthetic. These two processes are con-
tinuing population growth in a finite world and increasing concentra-
tion of people in progressively larger megalopolitan centers. Progeny
and space will have to be rationed much more effectively in the future
than in the past.
The more remote prospect is bleak while the immediate prospect,
blurred by current income growth, is misleadingly hopeful. Popula-
tion growth-demographic entropy-is dissipating man's capacity for
maneuver mnuch as economic entropy is dissipating the utility locked
up in depletable natural resources. After all, increase in number is an
essentially irreversible process; men usually multiply, but they seldom
dwindle as did avian, mammalian, and other species now extinct. Even
in the United States should natural increase plus a prospective annual
immigration of 350,000 long continue to increase population 1.0-1.5
per cent per year, our population, 325-350 million in 2010, would num-
ber 0.8-1.33 billion by 2100, and 1.5-2.8 billion (with perhaps one-
fourth nonwhite) two centuries hence. Acres of land of all sorts per


---Economics-1966-0-20.txt---
capita, probably still close to 5.5 in 2010, would continue to decline
until there would hardly be space even for our national flower, the con-
crete cloverleaf. Aesthetic considerations of all sorts would be
swamped by masses instead of by costs masquerading as pseudo-utility
as at present. Even in the absence of strepitous poverty-mongers many
would be conscious of being poor.
An even worse prospect obtains in the world at large. Between 1960
and 2000, according to United Nations estimates, world population
will grow nearly twice as fast as in 1920-60-around 113 per cent to
between 6 and 7 billion. The proportion in the developed world will
fall to around 22 per cent, since its numbers will grow only 61 per
cent, or but two-fifths as fast as the population of the underdeveloped
world which is expected to increase about 151 per cent. Should world
population continue to grow about 2 per cent per year it would number
16-18 billion by 2050 and 43-50 billion by 2100. Even if it should pro-
ceed only 1.5 per cent per year it would number 13-15 billion by 2050
and 26-31 billion by 2100. Acres of all sorts per capita, still about 4.7
to 5.5 in 2000, will then have fallen to 0.6-1.25 by 2100, and close to
one-half of this amount will be unfit for habitation except by Lower
Slobbovians. Man will have become essentially spaceless in a space
age, unless competition for living space should accidentally transform
the "ultimate deterrent" into the "ultimate detergent" and, as D. M.
Heer estimates (in his After Nuclear Attack), destroy perhaps 30 per
cent of the population, mostly in heavily urbanized areas.
Given growth of the order suggested as likely in the absence of con-
certed efforts to limit numbers, food shortages would eventually de-
velop despite schemes for deriving protein from coal and petroleum as
well as subsistence from algae and other crude organic matter, or for
supporting a man on 20 well-cultivated square meters of soil. First,
cultivable land is limited, though only about 7 per cent is used for non-
food crops, mainly fibers. In 1964 arable and permanent-crop land to-
taled about 3.6 billion acres; land in permanent meadows and pasture,
about 6.2 billion acres; and land in forest, about 10 billion acres. Just
how much land in the two latter categories is convertible into crop land
is indeterminate, though subject to exaggeration. It depends upon tech-
nology, tipon mastery of cultivation in the tropics and in droughty and
cold regions, upon land clearing and development, often a costly pro-
cess, and upon adequacy of the water supply. From the gross amount
of land so converted must be subtracted land blotted out of agriculture
by creeping concrete, construction, city growth, etc., which in the
United States has amounted to one-half acre or more per inhabitant
added to the urban population.
Second, though average yield per acre could prove capable of 300 or


---Economics-1966-0-21.txt---
more per cent increase, crop yield per acre is limited. Yield increases
are promising, of course. After all, "over a large part of the world
today agricultural productivity is now the same as, or even inferior to,
what it was in the leading civilized communities 2,000 years ago" [9,
p. 78]. Yields per acre vary widely; thus Japan produces roughly 3-4
times as much rice per acre as do South and Southeast Asian lands.
This variation is associated mainly with variation in input of fertilizer,
addition of a kilogram of which may increase grain output about 10
kilograms, given suitable methods of cultivation. Developed countries
use 5 times as much fertilizer per acre as do the underdeveloped; Eu-
rope uses about 20 times as much as do Africa and Asia and 9 times as
much as does Latin America; Japan uses over 100 times as much as do
India and Pakistan.
In many if not most underdeveloped countries pre-takeoff conditions
essential to the great upsurges in yields experienced in the United
States, Britain, and Japan have not yet been established [5]. Nor are
they soon likely to be established, given excessive population growth
and heightened barriers to the detraditionalizing of agriculture. Yet, as
James Bonner shows, even if a takeoff is experienced, it cannot carry
average production per acre above the limits "determined by the fac-
tors that regulate photosynthetic efficiency" and "being approached
today . . . in parts of Japan, of Western Europe, and of the United
States" [4, p. 14] [5]. Within limits, of course, the amount of nutrient
supplied per acre can be augmented through recourse to higher-yield
crops (e.g., soya beans).
The future of the food problem may be stated simply. Suppose we
increase world output 700 per cent by doubling crop acreage and qua-
drupling yields. World population would catch up with this increase in
about 107 years, given an annual growth rate of 2 per cent, and in
about 140 years, given a 1.5 per cent rate. Trebling crop acreage would
add perhaps a quarter to the above output, but only about one-tenth to
the years of grace. Rationalization of fisheries would not change the
data significantly. Augmentation of the food supply in the measure in-
dicated is unlikely. This is not one world; requisite knowledge and its
necessary complements are not likely to be imported and assimilated
rapidly in backward lands; nor will progressive lands have incentive to
export food, mainly cereal (of which about 5 per cent net is redistri-
buted by international commerce) to exchange-short countries.
Turning from land, the principal source of man's food and the sole
source of his living space, to water and minerals, the other primary in-
gredients of man's material well-being, one encounters limitations par-
allel to those of land. A precise measure of these limitations is not avail-
able. It depends on rates of consumption which are rising, upon actual


---Economics-1966-0-22.txt---
and exploitable reserves which remain underinventoried, and upon
man's ability to develop substitutes for current sources. Even so, the
outlook is not as promising as our Indian Summer natural-resource ex-
perts would have it. Consider water, long the economist's standard ex-
emplar of a free good. We Americans use in all forms over 370 billion
gallons of water per day and by 2000 we shall require 900 billion gal-
lons, which probably can be provided out of the 700 billion available
of the 1,200 billion that daily flow to the sea [40]. This amount, to-
gether with what is otherwise required and used of an average daily
rainfall of about 5 trillion gallons, will not suffice beyond the present
century. Then we shall have to reduce our average consumption, so
imbedded in our mode of living, since it is improbable that desalina-
tion of sea water can add greatly to our supply of appropriately situ-
ated water.
The long-run availability of large-volume materials (e.g., steel,
aluminum, concrete, ceramics, glass), together with our ability to cope
with shortages of special small-volume materials, depends, as F. G.
Tryon [15, pp. 136-38] suggested 40 years ago, upon man's ability to
produce and appropriately distribute cheap energy. Under present con-
ditions and at prospective use rates, the world's exploitable reserves of
a number of minerals will last less than a century. Aluminum and iron
would last 4 centuries at recent use rates, and the key fertilizers, potas-
sium and phosphorus, much longer. The World Power Conference of
1962 put economically exploitable coal reserves at 3.5 trillion tons,
enough for 800 years at current annual world consumption rates
(about 4.4 billion tons in 1960) and 100 years at American rates.
Other fossil fuels will last only into the next century. Water power
could supply the equivalent of 2.5 billion tons of coal per year, or less
than half current world energy consumption. Given breeder reactors,
usable uranium might come close to supplying as much energy as cur-
rent mineral or fossil fuel reserves; and low-grade thorium could sup-
ply 10-20 times as much. Fusion, when it becomes manageable, could
make the supply of energy virtually inexhaustible, even in the absence
of tidal, solar, geothermic, and related sources [27] [33, pp. 74-97].
In short, given the cheap energy likely to be available, shortage of
space, land, and water rather than of minerals would check the growth
of population and living standards. Limits will be imposed also, of
course, by unavoidable shortages of skilled personnel. Even given re-
quisite natural talents, we cannot long increase skilled manpower fast-
er than population; otherwise the whole of the labor force will be
transformed into economists, engineers physicians, and other cat-
egories of skilled manpower, and none will be left to minister to other
wants.


---Economics-1966-0-23.txt---
I have just been concentrating upon what exponential growth can do
in a finite environment, upon a growth process which, as Coale reports
[11, p. 36], within 65 centuries and in the absence of environmental
limits, could generate "a solid sphere of live bodies expanding with a
radial velocity that, neglecting relativity, would equal the velocity of
light." Let me now recall that second process operative in our world
of shrinking space, a process to which man must respond even as
the ratio of suitably situated space to population declines. I refer
to that seemingly stochastic process which is concentrating an ever
larger fraction of the world's population within the confines of a
small number of megalopolises or human rabbit warrens. This process
accentuates the adverse externalities associated with population
growth and, as has been suggested, may produce unfavorable political
effects as well as frustrate the demand for living space which tends to
rise with income. But let me turn to solutions.
Curbing population growth could prove easy in modern nations,
given current contraceptive methods and knowledge thereof. It is nec-
essary only to alter the terms of trade between gross increments to the
population and alternative uses of the inputs involved. In essence, this
might entail holding each couple responsible for all or most costs, visi-
ble and invisible, direct and indirect, of reproducing and rearing chil-
dren, in keeping with at least minimal standards prescribed by the
state. Should the number of births still be too large, excise taxes could
be imposed upon higher-order children and upon child-oriented prod-
ucts and services, while if births were too few, these products and ser-
vices could be cheapened through use of subsidies.
Control of megalopolitanization and the redirection of urban growth
are achievable through use of taxation, penalties, and constraints. Ini-
tially, however, much more study needs to be made of longitudinal and
cross-sectional relations between variation in city size and marginal
cost-benefit ratios under essentially comparable conditions.
As matters stand, the longer-run prospect is definitely Malthusian,
with man sitting on a demographic time bomb into which legislators,
and others, here and abroad, continue to shovel combustibles. Yet
there may be grounds for conditional optimism. Not only can economists
devote to the population question more attention than they gave it in the
past 80 years when they devoted only about 1-1.5 per cent of their ar-
ticles to population,1 but there are many more economists to do the job.
Today more economists are practicing than lived and died in the past
four thousand years, and their number is growing even faster than the
world's population.
'This estimate is based upon entries in the Index of Economic Journals, sponsored by
the American Economic Association.


---Economics-1966-0-24.txt---
REFERENCES2
1. H. J. BARNETT AND C. MORSE, Scarcity and Growth, Baltimore 1963;
T. W. SCHULTZ, Econzomic Organization of Agriculture, New York 1953.
2. WV. J. BAUMOL, in H. G. Schaller, ed., Public Expenditure Decisions in
the Urban Community, Resources for the Future, XVashington, D.C.
1963.
3. G. S. BECKER, "A Theory of the Allocation of Time," Econ. Jour.,
Sept. 1965, 75, 493-517; B. OKUN, Trends in Birth Rates in the United
States since 1870, Baltimore 1958.
4. JAMES BONNER, "The Upper Limit of Crop Yield," Science, July 6,
1962, 137, 11-15.
5. L. R. BROWN (U. S. Department of Agriculture), Increasing World
Food Output, Washington, D.C., and Man, Land & Food, Washington,
D.C. 1963; T. W. SCHULTZ, Transforming Traditional Agriculture, New
Haven 1964.
6. The Population Problem. London 1922.
7. On Quantative Thinking in Economics. Oxford 1935.
8. COLIN CLARK, Conditions of Economic Progress, 2nd ed., London 1951,
3rd ed., 1957.
9. COLIN CLARK AND M. R. HASWELL, The Economics of Subsistence Agri-
culture. London 1964.
10. M. CLAWSON et al., Land for the Future, Baltimore 1960; IRENE B.
TAEUBER, "The Development of Population Predictions in Europe and
the Americas," Estadi'stica, Sept. 1944, No. 7, 323-46; J. J. SPENGLER
AND 0. D. DUNCAN, eds., Demographlic Analysis, Glencoe 1956; J. S.
DAVIS, The Poputlation Upsurge in the United States (Food Research
Institute War-Peace Pamphlet 12), Stanford 1949.
11. A. J. COALE, "Increases in Expectation of Life and Population Growth,"
in Louis Henry and Wilhelm Winkler, eds., International Population
Conference, Vienna 1959.
12.- , ed., Demographic and Economic Change in Developed Coun-
tries. Princeton 1960.
13. J. S. DAVIS, "The Specter of Dearth of Food; History's Answer to Sir
William Crookes," in Facts and Factors in Economnic History, Cam-
bridge 1932, pp. 732-54.
14. J. F. DEWI-IURST et al., Europe's Needs and Resources, New York
1961; S. N. PROKOPOVICZ, l'industrialisation des pays agricoles et la struc-
ture de l'economie mondiale apres la guerre, Neuchatel 1946.
15. L. I. DUBLIN, ed., Population Problems in the United States and
Canada. New York 1926.
16. - et al., Length of Life, rev. ed., New York 1949; R. R. KUCZYN-
' Bibliographical note: For statistical and background information I have drawn on
W. S. and E. S. Woytinsky, World Population and Production, New York 1953; United
Nations, Population Bulletin, Nos. 6-7, and Provisional Report on World Population
Prospects . . . in 1963, New York 1964; D. V. Glass and D. E. C. Eversley, eds., Popula-
tion in History, Chicago 1965.


---Economics-1966-0-25.txt---
SKI, The Balance of Births and Deaths, New York 1928, and The
Mfeasuremenet of Population Growth, New York 1936.
17. S. ENKE, Economics for Development, New York 1963; "Economic
Programs to Prevent Births," presented at World Population Confer-
ence, Belgrade, Sept. 1965; and "The Economic Aspects of Slowing
Population Growth," to appear in Eco;. Jour. March, 1966, 76.
18. N. E. HIMES, Medical History of Contraceptionz, Baltimore 1936; R. 0.
GREEP, Human Fertility and Population Problems, Cambridge 1963.
19. The Coal Question, London 1865; H. W. SINGER, "The Coal Question
Reconsidered: Effects of Economy and Substitution," Rev. Econ. Stud.,
June 1941, 8, 166-77.
20. H. G. JOHNSON, The Canadian Quandary. Toronto 1963.
21. M. G. KENDALL, "Natural Law in the Social Sciences," Jour. Royal
Stat. Society, Ser. A, Part 1, 1961, 124, 1-18; H. A. SIMON, Models of
M1an, New York 1957, Ch. 9.
22. , New Prospects in Economic Analyses (Stamp Memorial Lecture
1960). London 1960.
23. The Econoniic Consequences of the Peace. New York 1920.
24. MlIemorials of Alfred Marshall, edited by A. C. PIGoU, London 1925;
A. F. WEBER, The Growth of Cities, New York 1899; Don Martin-
dale's introduction to Max Weber, The City, (1921), Glencoe 1958;
P. A. SOROKIN AND C. C. ZIMMERMAN, Princciples of Rural-Urban Soci-
ology, New York 1929.
25. Enough and to Spare. New York 1944.
2 6. S. J. PATEL, "The Economic Distance Between Nations: Its Origin,
Measurement and Outlook," Econ. Jour., iMarch 1964, 74, 126-30 and
Sept. 1965, 75, 632--36; A. J. COALE AND E. M. HoOVER, Population
Growth and Econo,nic Development in Low-Incom%e Countries, Prince-
ton 1958.
27. E. W. PEHRSON, "Mineral Resources-Hydrosphere vs. Lithosphere,"
unpublished; D. F. FRASCHE, Mineral Resources, Washington, D.C.
1962; K. HUBBERT, Energy Resources, Washington, D.C. 1962; Index,
no. 6, 1965, 1-2.
28. L. S. PENROSE, "Elementary Statistics of Majority Voting," Jour. Royal
Stat. Society, 1946, 109, 53-57.
29. Economics of Welfare. London 1932.
30. K. RANKAMIA AND T. G. SAHAMA, Geochemistry. Chicago 1950.
31. J. J. SPENGLER, "Aspects of the Economics of Population Growth," So.
Econ. Jour., Jan. 1948, 14, 233-65; E. A. WRIGLEY, "The Supply of
Raw Materials in the Industrial Revolution," Econ. History Rev., Aug.
1962, 15, 1-16.
32. , "Population and Freedom," Population Review, June 1962, 6,
74-82; also Colin Clark's counterargument, "Do Population and Freedom
Grow Together?" Fortune, Dec. 1960, 136 ff.
33. , ed., Natural Resources and Economic Growth, Resources for
the Future, Washington, D.C. 1961.
34. The Bogey of Economic Maturity. Chicago 1945.


---Economics-1966-0-26.txt---
35. W. I. THOMAS, Man's Role in Changing the Face of the Earth. Chicago
1962.
36. UNITED NATIONS, Report of the Secretary General (E/3895, May 18,
1964) to the Economic and Social Council, 37th Session, Agenda item
21.
37. "Collective-Consumption Services of Individual Consumption Goods,"
Quart. Jour. Econ., Aug. 1964, 78, 471-77.
38. A. N. WHITEHEAD, Process and Reality, New York 1929; A. J. LOTKA,
Elements of Physical Biology, Baltimore 1925.
39. A. B. WOLFE, "The Population Problem since the World War," Jour.
Pol. Econ., in 3 parts, 192 8-29, 36-37.
40. ABEL WOLMAN, "The Metabolism of Cities," Scientific Amer., Sept.
1965, 213, 178-93; ROGER REVELLE, "Water," ibid., Sept., 1963, 209,
92-109; C. C. BRADLEY, "Human Water Needs and Water Use in
America, Science, Oct. 26,1962,138, 489-91.


---Economics-1967-0-03.txt---
Last year, when it was my task to plan the program for the annual
meeting of our association, a friend suggested that, with twenty years
having passed since the outbreak of the "marginalism controversy," it
was appropriate to review what has since happened to the embattled
theory of the firm. The topic did not fit the general theme I had chosen
for the 1965 meeting, but I reasoned that 1966 would give me a good
opportunity to undertake the review myself.
The Battlefield Revisited
So let us recall that literary feud and the warriors, and let us revisit
the battlefield. The major battlefield was the American Economic Re-
view, with six articles and communications between March 1946 and
March 1947 [16] [43] [21] [17] [22] [44]. There had been earlier
gunfire elsewhere, chiefly in the Oxford Economic Papers in 1939 [14].
But, since the shooting then was not returned and it takes at least two
opponents to join battle, it must be agreed that the real hostilities were
the exchanges in the AER.
The fight was spirited, even fierce. Thousands of students of eco-
nomics, voluntary or involuntary readers, have been either shocked or
entertained by the violence of some of the blows exchanged and may
have thought that the opponents must have become mortal enemies
forever. These readers would have been wrong. Even before we came
out for the last round of the fight, we exchanged friendly letters (De-
cember 1:946) assuring each other that we would bear no grudges.
We have remained the best of friends; for several years now Rich-
ard Lester and I have been colleagues in the same department; and, as
a token of our friendship, he has generously accepted my invitation to
share this platform with me today as chairman of the session. Thus the
veterans of both sides of the War of 1946 are now joined in revisiting


---Economics-1967-0-04.txt---
the battlefield. This, incidentally, does not mean that either of us has
succeeded in converting the other to the "true faith."
What was the outcome of the controversy? Who won? We could not
possibly say if we have not first agreed on precisely what the shooting
was about. I have heard it said that Machlup won the battle but Lester
won the war. What this means, however, cannot be known unless we
know what the issues and objectives of the war had been. Was it mere-
ly to make economics safe for or from marginalism? Were there not
several other issues being fought over?
Some of the Major Issues
There were no doubt a good many contentions of all sorts-nmajor,
minor, essential, incidental, interpretative, factual, methodological,
substantive, and all the rest. To present a complete catalogue of the
issues involved would be too ambitious a task for this occasion, but a
partial listing might be helpful.
The chief issue, of course, was whether marginal analysis was inval-
id and ought to be discarded, especially as far as the theory of prices,
cost, wages, and employment in manufacturing industry is concerned.
This issue, however, implied the question of the correct interpretation
of marginal analysis, including the tenets of the marginal-productivity
principle. In this connection, differences in the models of the firm cus-
tomarily used in different kinds of analysis became relevant. Involved
here was the question of whether the postulate of maximizing money
profits led to conclusions very different from those derivable from as-
sumptions of conduct guided by a variety of largely nonpecuniary con-
siderations.
Underlying all these questions were some issues of general scientific
methodology: the legitimacy and usefulness of abstract theorizing on
the basis of unrealistic assumptions, or perhaps on the basis of as-
sumptions regarded as "reasonable" thought not "universally true."
These issues, in particular, were whether an assumption of profit maxi-
mization as the effective objective of the firm in the theoretical model
may be accepted as a tenable hypothesis only if it can be verified that
all or a majority of those who actually run business firms in the real
world agree that this is their only or major objective, that they are ca-
pable of obtaining all the information and of performing all the calcu-
lations needed for the realization of that objective, and are really car-
rying out the actions found to be optimal in this fashion; or, alterna-
tively, whether all these tests may be dispensed with and the assump-
tion of profit maximization nevertheless accepted as a fruitful postu-
late from which conclusions can be derived which correspond with what
can be observed in the records of prices and quantities.


---Economics-1967-0-05.txt---
Concerning the empirical testing of theoretical conclusions, there
were issues of the validity of surveys through mailed questionnaires and
of the proper interpretation of responses to various types of questions
about managerial judgment. In the background of the whole controver-
sy, but undoubtedly Qf pervasive significance, was the comparative ac-
ceptability of empirical findings to the effect that the elasticity of de-
mand for labor was virtually zero and of the conventional theoretical
inference that the elasticity was normally above zero.
Realizing how manifold were the issues of the controversy, one can
appreciate that no clear decision can be made about its outcome. Some
of the issues had been raised decades or centuries before 1946 and
were not decided in this confrontation one way or the other. Attacks
on the assumption of maximizing behavior and on the lack of realism
in price theory have occurred with great regularity ever since "eco-
nomic man" and similar postulates were introduced. The running bat-
tles between the classical and the historical schools were largely on
these points. The Methodenstreit of 1883-84 dealt essentially with the
same issues. And in the United States, institutionalism may be seen as
a movement animated by the same spirit of protest against abstract
theory.
However, the particular form of explicit marginalism (under the
name of "theory of the firm") which became the target of the attacks
of 1939 and 1946 had only come into being in the 1930's-if one sup-
presses the memory of the great master of 1838 [9]. Ironically, some
interpreter of recent history of economic thought-I have forgotten
who it was-regarded the 1933-34 versions of the theory of the firm
[8] [32] [411 as the theorists' concession to institutionalism, as
attempts to supplement the neoclassical model of the firm under atom-
istic competition with some "more realistic" models allowing for a
greater variety of conditions. It was this theory of the profit-maxi-
mizing firm in all sorts of market positions, in monopolistic and oligop-
olistic competition as well as in pure and perfect competition, that
was attacked by the researchers in Oxford; and it was the marginal-
productivity principle in the explanation of the demand for labor on
the part of the individual firm that was the prime target of the attack
of 1946.
If the chief aim of the attack was to force the abandonment or sub-
version of marginalism, and if the chief aim of the defense was to turn
back the subversive forces and secure the reign of marginalism once
and for all, then, to be sture, the war of 1946 ended in a draw. Look at
the textbooks and youi will find that marginalism has continuied to
dominate the teaching of microeconomics, perhaps though with occa-
sional reservations and references to current attempts at greater real-


---Economics-1967-0-06.txt---
ism. But look at the journals and monographs and you find that re-
search on alternative approaches to the theory of the firm is regularly
reported with the implication that a superior theory may eventually
replace marginalism. This replacement, however, according to the pro-
ponents of the best-known alternatives to marginalism, is expected
chiefly with regard to industries where firms are few and competition is
ineffective. The marginalist solution of price determination under con-
ditions of heavy competition is not seriously contested.
In pointing this out, I am not trying to claim that marginal analysis
is invincible and forever irreplaceable. If I follow the philosophy of
science which, instead of pronouncing theories "false" or "true," dis-
tinguishes only between those "rejected" and those "still open to criti-
cism" [30, pp. 246-48], the only victory that can be claimed for the
cause of marginalism is that it is still open to criticism. I must go be-
yond this and concede that some anti-marginalist suggestions have led
in recent years to a number of revisions in the marginal analysis of the
firm which amount to the incorporation of other goals besides money
profits into expanded marginalist objective functions.
The Alternative Approaches
In their arguments against the profit-maximization model the var-
ious alternative approaches to the theory of the firm are very much
alike; only their positive programs can distinguish them.
The program of behaviorism is to reject preconceptions and assump-
tions and to rely only on observation of overt behavior. Thus, beha-
viorism rejects the assumption of marginal analysis that economic ac-
tion is directed by the objective to maximize the attainment of ends
with given means, and that business action can be deduced from a pos-
tulate that firms attempt to maximize money profits. Instead, we are
directed to observe how businessmen really act and by what processes
they reach decisions.
Perhaps it is not entirely fair to suggest here an association between
"behaviorism" and the working program of the proponents of a "be-
havioral theory of the firm" [10]. In any case, behavioral research
proposes to observe and study the "real processes," in the sense of a
"well-defined sequence of behaviors" by which decisions are reached in
"actual business organizations." The hope-faithfully inductive-is to
develop a theory "with generality beyond the specific firms studied"
[10, p. 2]. Such a theory will be based on "four major sub-theories"
regarding "organizational goals, organizational expectations, organiza-
tional choice, and organizational control" [10, p. 211. It is assumed
that five organizational goals-a production goal, an inventory goal, a
sales goal, a market-share goal, and the profit goal-become the sub-


---Economics-1967-0-07.txt---
ject of bargaining among the various members of the "coalition" which
make up the business organization but that the goals are continually
adapted and are being pressed with varying force [10, pp. 40-43].
The behavior theory of the firm, with regard to the determination of
prices and outputs, will run in terms of a "quasi resolution of conflict"
within the organization, of an "adaptively rational, multiple-objective
process" with responses to "short-run feedback on performance" and
with continuing "organizational learning" [10, pp. 269-70].
This behavioral approach has been characterized as striving for
"realism in process," in contrast to approaches aiming at more "real-
ism in motivation" [48, p. 11]. Such realism in motivation is felt to
be needed chiefly because of the separation of ownership and control in
the modern corporation, whose managements have great power and
wide discretion.
In principle, I could expect three different views to be taken
regarding the relative independence of corporation management:
(1) Whereas owners would run their business chiefly with a view to a
maximum of money profits, managers run it with several supplementary
and partly competing goals in mind. (2) Whereas owners, especially
wealthy ones, would often allow nonprofit considerations to enter their
decision-making, managers have a sense of dedication and iden-
tification with the business that makes them the more single-minded
seekers of profits. (3) Even if managers are inclined to indulge in
seeking other goals as long as profits look satisfactory, they are as
professionals, trained in the art and science of management, able to
make better profits than the owners could ever hope to make running
their own show.
What consequences can be drawn from this? One attitude would be
to stick with the assumption of profit maximization because it is the
simplest and is applicable with much less detailed information to the
largest field.' Another attitude would be to insist on starkest realism
with a complete catalogue of goals and indices of their effectiveness in
each firm. A third attitude would be to select two or three of the most
1 "To use marginalism in the theory of the firm it is not necessary to assert that firms  attempt to maximize money profits only nor to deny that a goodly portion of all business  behavior miay be nonrational, thoughtless, blindly repetitive, deliberately traditional, or  motivated by extra-economic objectives. It merely presupposes that the 'rational-economic'  portion of business conduct is by and large sufficiently important to affect what is going  on in the world to an extent large enough to warrant analysis; and that the substitution  of money profits for a composite of pecuniary and nonpecuniary rewards simplifies the  analysis so much that the gain in expediency far exceeds the loss in applicability" [23  pp. 30-31]. A similar view is expressed by Scitovsky: "Empirical studies of businessmen's  behavior suggest the need for modifying or qualifying the assumption of profit maximiza-  tion here and there, rather than scrapping it altogether. Accordingly, . . . we shall retain  the assumption that the firm aims at maximizing its profit. But we shall regard this  assumption as a working hypothesis rather than as a universal rule" [37, p. 111].


---Economics-1967-0-08.txt---
important managerial objectives of a type that can be reduced to quan-
titative analysis and to combine them in a single manageable "objec-
tive function." This third approach inerges marginalism with manage-
rialism in that it integrates money profits with other managerial goals
within one formula of "maximizing behavior."
The question is whether managerial marginalism is prescribed for
general application or only for so-called noncompetitive cases. Its most
prominent proponents prefer to use the old formula, based on profit
maximization, in situations where competition is effective and manage-
rial discretion therefore narrowly circumscribed. In the next sections
we shall discuss matters that at first blush may seem unrelated to this
issue but on reflection can shed indirect light on it.
The Analogy of the Theoretical Automobile Driver
One of the best remembered points in my exposition was the use of
an analogy designed to warn against mistaking theoretical variables
and their links for realistic descriptions of observable processes. This
was the analogy of the "theory of overtaking" automobiles on the high-
ways [21,pp. 534-35].
Analogies are often misleading, but in this particular case it served
its main purpose: to show that the theoretical variables need not be
estimated and the theoretical equations need not be solved through ac-
tual calculation by the actors in the real world whose idealized types
are supposed to perform these difficult operations in the models con-
structed for the explanation of recorded observations.2 The critics of
marginal analysis believed they had refuted it if they could show that
the exact numerical calculations of marginal magnitudes-cost, reve-
nue, productivity-were difficult or impossible to perform by real deci-
sion-makers.
Yet, my analogy was only partially successful. An implication which
should have been obvious has been widely overlooked: that the type of
action assumed to be takein by the theoretical actor in the model under
specified conditions need not be expected and cannot be predicted ac-
tually to be taken by any particular real actor. The empiricist's incli-
nation is to verify the theoretically deduced action by testing individ-
ual behavior, although the theory serves only to explain and predict
effects of mass behavior.
We may illustrate this again by means of the same analogy, the the-
ory of overtaking. Assume a change of driving conditions occurs, say,
that the roads have become wet and slippery and fog has reduced visi-
'The theoretical automobile driver had to estimate, among other things, the speeds of
three vehicles and the distances between them, and to perform calculations involving po-
tential acceleration and a few other things, before he could decide to overtake the truck
ahead of him. An actual driver simnply "sizes up" the situation and goes ahead.


---Economics-1967-0-09.txt---
bility. Theory enables us to predict that traffic will be slower and acci-
dents more frequent, but it does not enable us to predict that any par-
ticular driver will drive more slowly or have an accident. The model of
the reactions of the individual driver was not designed to explain the
actual driving of any particular operator but only to explain the ob-
servable consequences of the observed change of conditions by deduc-
ing from the model the theoretical reactions of a hypothetical driver.
Our analogy can also show us the limitations of the model: the pre-
diction will hold only if there is a large number of automobiles on the
road. If only a very few cars are around, there may be no accident and
there need not be a reduction in their speed. Conceivably, the opera-
tors may all be good and self-confident drivers. Marginal analysis of
hypothetical driver reaction will suffice for explaining and predicting
the consequences of a change in driving conditions if the number of
automobiles on the highways is large. If the number is small, behav-
ioral research will be needed, though it may or may not be worth the
cost.
Still another use can be made of our analogy: to show the vast
differences in the scope of questions to which answers can or cannot be
expected with the aid of a given theory, for example, from the theory
of overtaking as sketched in my article. Compare the following four
questions: (1) How fast will traffic move? (2) How fast will the auto-
mobile driven by Mr. X move? (3) How will the speed of traffic be
affected by fog? (4) How will the speed of Mr. X's driving be affected
by fog?
The theory sketched by me offers no answer to the first question, be-
cause each of the variables specified may have very different values for
different cars and drivers; it has no answer to the second question, and
only a suggestion, a rebuttable presumption, for answering the fourth
question, because the theory is not really concerned with particular
persons or their actions and reactions. The theory is equipped only to
answer the third question, regarding the effects of a change in driving
conditions on automobile traffic in general, and even this answer will
be qualitative only, without good clues to numerical results. It may be
interesting to get answers to all four questions, but since Question 3
can be answered with a fraction of the information that would be
needed to answer the other questions, it would be foolish to burden the
models designed for Question 3 with irrelevant matters, or to reject
such models because they cannot do what they are not designed to do.3
sA behavioral theory of automobile driving would probably study the process by which  the decision to pass a truck is arrived at in a sequence of bickering among the members
of the family: Mama and Sis trying to argue against taking an unnecessary risk, Sonny
egging on his Dad to speed up and pass the truck "crawling" ahead of them. Moreover,  the theory would not be satisfied with "explaining" the decision to overtake but it would


---Economics-1967-0-10.txt---
Confusion of Purposes
The same sort of confusion about the scope of problems and models
for their solution has been fostered in recent writings on the theory of
the firm: models have been condemned or rejected because they could
not be used for purposes for which they had not been designed, and
significant differences in the questions to be answered have been ob-
scured or underemphasized.
Let us again pose four typical questions and see which of them we
might expect to answer with the aid of "price theory." (1) What will
be the prices of cotton textiles? (2) What prices will the X Corpora-
tion charge? (3) How will the prices of cotton textiles be affected by
an increase in wage rates? (4) How will the X Corporation change its
prices when wage rates are increased?
Conventional price theory is not equipped to answer any but the
third question; it may perhaps also suggest a rebuttable answer to the
fourth question. But Questions 1 and 2 are out of reach. We could not
obtain all the information that would be required for their answers and
there is, therefore, no use burdening the models with variables remain-
ing silent and inactive throughout the show.
We ought to guard against an easy misunderstanding of our denial
that conventional price theory can predict actual prices of specified
goods. Prediction of future prices of a particular commodity may in
fact be quite manageable if we know its present price. It should be ob-
vious, however, that this is Question 3, not Question 1. Or, one may be
able to predict prices on the basis of good information on production
cost. But this presupposes that we know the demand for the commodity
and assume it will remain unchanged; which again comes down essen-
tially to evaluations of changes of some variables with others held
constant, that is, to Question 3.
If the number of firms producing cotton textiles is large and the X
Corporation does not supply a very large part of the aggregate output
of the industry, price theory may suggest an answer to Question 4, al-
though this is not the purpose of the theory and there may be a consid-
erable chance for the suggested answer to be wrong. The point is that a
model of a theoretical firm in an industry consisting of a large number
of firms can do with a much smaller number of assumptions, provided
the model is used to predict, not the actual reactions of any one partic-
ular firm, but only the effects of the hypothetical reactions of numer-
ous anonymous "reactors" (symbolic firms). If it were to be applied to
predictions of reactions of a particular firm, the model would have to
also wish to determine the speed of driving, the frequency and length of stops at road-  side stands, and all the rest.


---Economics-1967-0-11.txt---
be much more richly endowed with variables and functions for which
information could be obtained only at considerable effort and with re-
sults that may or may not be worth the cost of the required research.
My charge that there is widespread confusion regarding the pur-
poses of the "theory of the firm" as used in traditional price theory re-
fers to this: The model of the firm in that theory is not, as so many
writers believe, designed to serve to explain and predict the behavior
of real firms; instead, it is designed to explain and predict changes in
observed prices (quoted, paid, received) as effects of particular
changes in conditions (wage rates, interest rates, import duties, excise
taxes, technology, etc.). In this causal connection the firm is only a
theoretical link, a mental construct helping to explain how one gets
from the cause to the effect.4 This is altogether different from ex-
plaining the behavior of a firm. As the philosopher of science warns,
we ought not to confuse the explanans with the explanandum.
Misplaced Concreteness
To confuse the firm as a theoretical construct with the firm as an
empirical concept, that is, to confuse a heuristic fiction with a real or-
ganization like General Motors or Atlantic & Pacific, is to commit the
"fallacy of misplaced concreteness." This fallacy consists in using the-
oretic symbols as though they had a direct, observable, concrete mean-
ing.
In some fields, investigators are protected from committing the fal-
lacy, at least with regard to some of their problems, by the fact that a
search for any empirical counterpart to the theoretical construct seems
hopeless. Thus, some physicists working on particle theory were able
4The same statement can be made about the household. The "household" in price theory
is not an object of study; it serves only as a theoretical link between changes in prices
and changes in labor services supplied and in consumer goods demanded. The hypothetical
reactions of an imaginary decision-maker on the basis of assumed, internally consistent
preference functions serve as the simplest and heuristically satisfactory explanation of
empirical relationships between changes in prices and changes in quantities. In other words,
the household in price theory is not an object of study.
Behavioral studies of real households are something entirely different. A realistic, be-
havioral theory of the household might conceivably distinguish the large, children-domi-
nated household from a simpler, father-dominated one. The decisions in the children-
dominated household, where mother frequently and father occasionally try to exercise
some influence, are probably not consistent, since different preference systems are made
explicit at various times, with varying decibels and gestures deployed to make them pre-  vail over the preferences of other members of the family.
One can imagine studies on the behavior of particular households selected at random or
in structured samples. If the researcher learns that a spoiled brat in a family wants to
eat nothing but beef and throws a tantrum every time his mother tries to feed him other
kinds of meat, a reduction in the price of chicken will probably not substantially increase
the consumption of chicken in this family. Thus, the weight of the child's taste in the
decision process of the family can explain a low elasticity of its demand for chicken. But
none of this has much bearing on general price theory.


---Economics-1967-0-12.txt---
to answer the question "Does the Neutrino Really Exist?" [11, pp.
139-41] laconically with "Who cares?" and to explain that any belief
in the "real existence" of atoms, electrons, neutrinos, and all the rest,
would hold up the progress of our knowledge. Some biologists working
in genetics warned, after empirical genes were discovered, that these
"operational genes" should not be confused with the "hypothetical
genes," which had been useful constructs in explanatory models before
the discovery of any empirical referents [42, p. 814]. Economists,
however, know for sure that firms exist as empirical entities and,
hence, they have a hard time keeping the theoretical firm and the em-
pirical firm apart.
For certain economic problems the existence of the firm is of the es-
sence. For example, if we study the size distribution of firms or the
growth of the firm, the organization and some of its properties and
processes are the very objects of the investigation. In such studies we
insist on a high degree of correspondence between the model (the
thought-object) and the observed object. For other problems, however,
as for problems of competitive-price theory, any likeness between the
theoretical construct of the firm and the empirical firm is purely coin-
cidental.
Economists trained in scientific methodology understand this clear-
ly. I might quote a dozen or more writers, but will confine myself to
one quotation, which states that "in economic analysis, the business
firm is a postulate in a web of logical connections" [15, p. 1961. Let
me add the statement of another writer, who however was plaintiff
rather than advocate when he wrote that "It is a fascinating paradox
that the received theory of the firm, by and large, assumes that the
firm does not exist" [45, p. 249].
Here is what I wrote on one of the several occasions when I have
discussed this problem:
... the firm in the model world of economic micro-theory ought not to
call forth any irrelevant associations with firms in the real world. We
know, of course, that there are firms in reality and that they have boards
of directors and senior and junior executives, who do, with reference to
hundreds of different products, a great many things-which are entirely
irrelevant for the microtheoretical model. The fictitious firm of the model
is a "uni-brain," an individual decision-unit that has nothing to do but
adjust the output and the prices of one or two imaginary products to very
simple imagined changes in data [26, p. 1331.
I went on, of course, to say that this purely fictitious single-minded
firm, helpful as it is in competitive-price theory, will not do so much
for us in the theory of monopoly and oligopoly. To explain and predict
price reactions under monopoly and oligopoly we need more than the


---Economics-1967-0-13.txt---
construct of a profit-maximizing reactor.5 I shall come back to this
after discussing the demands for "more realistic" assumptions where
they are plainly irrelevant and therefore out of place.
Realistic Models of the Firm under Competition
Many of the proponents and protagonists of a more realistic theory
of the firm are quite aware of the fact that the managerial extension
and enrichment of the concept of the firm was not needed except where
firms in the industry were large and few, and not under the pressure of
competition. There are many very quotable statements to this effect.'
Too many students, however, want a realistic model of the firm for
all purposes. They forget the maxim of Occam's Razor that unneces-
sary terms in a theory be kept out (or shaved off). These students
seem to miss in a simplified model the realistic trimmings of the ob-
servable world; they distrust such a model because it is obviously
'You may wonder whether I have changed my mind on these matters. Incidentally, I  hold that it is important for scholars and scientists to have an open mind, and the only  evidence showing that they do are instances in which they have actually changed their  minds. On this particular issue, however, I cannot oblige. Whether I am right or wrong,
I have been consistent regarding these points. Let me quote from an article I wrote 28
years ago: "The problem of oligopoly is by definition the problem of the effects of the  actions of few, giving a greater importance to the behavior of each member of the group.  . . . The theory of the oligopoly price involves an interpretation of the significant motives  behind the actions of a small number of people.... Even the most superficial theory will
have to include many more ideal types of behavior in order to handle the problem of
few sellers than it takes to handle the problem of a mass of competitive sellers"
[20, p. 235].
On the other hand, I must plead guilty to a charge of the same error of misplaced  concreteness against which I have just warned. It occurred in a sentence in which I spoke
of various magnitudes (subjectively) "perceived or fancied by the men whose decisions or  actions are to be explained (the business men) . . ." [21, p. 521]. If this sentence referred  only to oligopolistic or monopolistic behavior, it would not be so bad, for, as I said above,  the theoretical constructs of decision-makers in this case have a closer correspondence to  real businessmen than the constructs in the theory of competitive prices. But the sentence
was supposed to apply to the constructs of the firm in any position whatever. Hence it  was a misleading sentence in that (1) it gave the impression that the decision-makers in
question were real men (real businessmen, whom you could interview) and (2) it said  that the actions of these men were to be explained, whereas the purpose of the theory  was not to explain observed actions but only observable results of imtgined (postulated)
reactions to observable events.
I apologize for this error. Not that I do not approve of a busy shuttle-traffic between  the domain of theoretical construction and the domain of empirical observation, but we
must never fail to specify the side of the frontier on which we happen to be. The  theoretical terms may have empirical referents (counterparts), but to believe, or allow
an impression of belief, that the two are identical is a methodological fallacy.  " g4When the conditions of competition are relaxed . . . the opportunity set of the firm  is expanded. In this case, the behavior of the firm as a distinct operating unit is of sepa-  rate interest. Both for purposes of interpreting particular behavior within the firm as  well as for predicting responses of the industry aggregate, it may be necessary to identify  the factors that influence the firm's choices within this expanded opportunity set and  embed these in a formal model" [48, pp. 2-3].


---Economics-1967-0-14.txt---
"descriptively false." In view of this sentimental hankering for real-
ism, it may be helpful to survey some of the inclusions which various
writers have proposed in order to meet the demands for greater realism
in the "theory of the firm," and to examine their relevance to the theo-
ry of competitive price. The following considerations are supposed to
supplement, qualify, restrict, or replace the objective of maximizing
money profits.
(1) Entrepreneurs and managers cannot be expected to have an in-
elastic demand for leisure; indeed, one must assume that this demand
is income-elastic so that higher profit expectations will cause them to
sacrifice some income for the sake of more leisure [36, p. 356].
(2) Managers are anxious to avoid resentment on the part of their col-
leagues and subordinates and will, therefore, not enforce their orders
with the sternness required for maximization of profits; similarly,
minor functionaries do not want to disturb the routines of their superi-
ors and, hence, they often abstain from suggesting improvements
which would maximize profits [31, p. 452]. (3) Managers are more
interested in their own salaries, bonuses, and other emoluments, than
in the profits of the firm or the income of its owners [27, pp.
226-27]. (4) The realization of certain asset preferences (for exam-
ple, liquidity as against inventories and fixed assets) may be in conflict
with profit maximization [5, p. 99]. (5) The flow and biased screen-
ing of information through the various levels of management may
cause systematic misinformation resulting in earnings far below the
maximum obtainable [27, p. 229]. (6) The objective of maintaining
control in the hands of the present control group may require a
sacrifice of profit opportunities [31, p. 455]. (7) The preference for
security may be so strong that even relatively conservative ways of
making higher profits are eschewed [12, pp. 270-71]. (8) The striv-
ing for status, power, and prestige may be such that it results in con-
duct not consistent with a maximum of profit [1, p. 145] [28, p.
207] [13, p. xii] [27, p. 227]. (9) The wish to serve society, be a
benefactor, or soothe one's social conscience, may militate against ac-
tions or policies that would maximize profits [7, pp. 16-17] [13, pp.
339-40]. (10) The instinct of workmanship [46, p. 187], a desire to
show professional excellence [1, p. 146], a pervasive interest in feats
of engineering, may lead to performance in conflict with highest possi-
ble profits. (11) Compromises among the different goals of executives
with different interests-production, sales, personnel relations, finance,
research and development, public relations, etc.-are sure to "compro-
mise" the objective of maximum profits [10, p. 29]. (12) A variety
of influences may be exerted on management decisions, perhaps pulling
in different directions and possibly away from maximum profits, as for
example influences from labor organizations, suppliers of materials,


---Economics-1967-0-15.txt---
customers, bankers, government agencies [13, p. 340] [12, p. 270]
[28, pp. 195-205].
I shall not prolong this catalogue even if it is far from complete. Let
us admit that each of the possible deviations from maximum profit
may be "real" in some circumstances. But how effective and significant
are they? If the industry is effectively competitive-and it does not
have to be "purely" competitive or "perfectly" competitive-is there
much of a chance that the direction in which firms react, through their
decisions regarding prices, inputs and output, to a change in conditions
would be turned around by any of the "forces" listed? Before we say
apodictically no, we should examine a few of the reservations.
Security and Managerial Coordination
Let us single out two items which have been given especially wide
play: the "objective of security" and the question of "managerial co-
ordination."
The demand for the recognition of a separate "security motive"
conflicting with the profit motive deserves a good discussion. But when
I prepared for it, I reread what I had written on this subject and found
that I could not improve on it. Will you do me the favor of reading it
[23, pp. 51-53 and 424-28] and, if you like it, make your students
read it?
That there are no business profits without risks and that there is not
much point in treating the two quite separately; that it would be silly
to call a decision one of profit-maximizing if it increased risk and un-
certainty so much as to reduce the chance of survival; that the notion
of long-run profits comprises all considerations of risks of loss; that, in
terms of my automobile-driving analogies, only a fool would assume
that maximization of speed means driving 120 miles an hour regardless
of curves and bumps; these are some of the things that have to be said
in this connection. But the most essential point to be made is that in
the economics of adjustment to change the issues of security, survival,
and maximum profit are merged. How primitive again to confuse new
ventures and daring moves with mere responses to stimuli, obvious
reactions to change. If a change in conditions calls for a certain reac-
tion in the name of maximum profits, the very same reaction is called
for also in the name of security of survival.
The other matter is of a more "behavioral" nature: the coordination
of different goals and judgments on the part of different members of
the management and the deviations from profit maximization that may
be involved in the process. Frankly, I cannot quite see what great
difference organizational matters are supposed to make in the firm's
price reactions to changes in conditions. Assume, for example, the im-
port duties on foreign products competing with the products of domes-


---Economics-1967-0-16.txt---
tic industry are raised, with a resulting increase in the demand for the
products of the firm. Why should the clashes and compromises of di-
vergent opinions reverse the direction of the change that would be
"dictated" by the simple rule of profit maximization? Perhaps one vice
president wants to raise prices without increasing output, while an-
other wants to increase output without (at least at the moment) rais-
ing prices. No matter what their compromise will be, it is likely to con-
form with what the simple rule suggests. But if not, so what? Remem-
ber we are talking about industries with more than a few firms and
with free entry.7
Other Qualifications to Competitive Price Theory
Substitution between income and leisure looks like the strongest
reason for a qualification in cases in which the change in conditions is
such that not only the locus of maximum profits is shifted but also the
amount of profit obtainable is changed. Take again the example of a
tariff increase shutting out foreign competition. The firms in the indus-
try will find that given outputs will now fetch higher prices and that in-
creased outputs can be sold at prices higher than those prevailing be-
fore tariffs were raised. And profits will be higher in any case, so that
managers-even owner-managers-will be inclined to relax their
efforts. Yet would anybody seriously argue that the substitution of lei-
sure (coffee breaks, cocktail parties, golf) for potential profits would
be such that total output would be reduced instead of increased? It is
not a likely story, and where the industry consists of several or many
firms, the small probability vanishes quickly. What remains of the ar-
gument is that total output would increase, in reaction to the tariff in-
crease, somewhat less than it would if the managers were eager beav-
ers and did not relax in their efforts when profits increased. Thus, the
elasticity of supply of the products in question is a little smaller. But
since we do not know how much it would be anyhow, the unknown
substraction from an unknown number should not cause the economic
theorist any serious anxieties. (And if the politicians who push for the
tariff increase decide to push less hard if we tell them that their friends
in the industry will enjoy some of the added protection in the form of
more leisure' and recreation, we would not really mind.)
Even if formal accuracy demanded that we accept the maximization
of the decision-maker's total utility as the basic assumption, simplicity
and fruitfulness speak for sticking with the postulate of maximiza-
tion of money profits for situations in which competition is effective.
The question is not whether the firms of the real world will really max-
'A great champion of more realistic theories of the firm summed up his reflections on
their implications for general economics with this statement: "We shall not be far wrong
in concluding . . . that the impact of more realistic theories of the firm on static price
analysis is likely to be small" [6, p. 42].


---Economics-1967-0-17.txt---
imize money profits, or whether they even strive to maximize their
money profits, but rather whether the assumption that this is the ob-
jective of the theoretical firms in the artificial world of our construc-
tion will lead to conclusions-"inferred outcomes"-very different
from those derived from admittedly more realistic assumptions.
The second qualification in my list-regarding bosses, colleagues
and subordinates-is quite irrelevant, except perhaps for questions of
welfare economics, where it matters whether firms "really" do all they
can to maximize efficiency. For theories concerned with changes in
prices, inputs, and outputs in response to changes to conditions (of
production, resource availability, and product demand) the strictness
with which efficiency is watched in the firm does not matter. The
effects of the tariff increase in our illustration, or the effects of changes
in wage rates, interest rates, tax rates, and so forth, are if there is
effective competition, essentially independent of the relations among
the various levels in the managerial hierarchy of the firm.
It would take too much time here to go through our entire list of
reservations. Anybody who makes the effort will find that some of the
"realistic assumptions" proposed for inclusion in the theory can affect
(by an unknown amount) the magnitude but not the direction of any
change that is likely to result from a specified change in conditions;
and that other assumptions will not even do that much. In short, they
are all irrelevant for purposes of competitive price theory.
Oligopoly, Monopoly, and Managerial Discretion
I repeat: In the theory of competitive price the "real existence" of
firms is irrelevant; imaginary (postulated) agents pursuing a simple
(postulated) goal react to assumed changes in conditions and thereby
produce (or allow us to infer) changes in prices, inputs, and outputs
[24, pp. 13-14]. The correspondence between these inferences (de-
duced changes) and actual observations (observed changes in prices,
inputs, and outputs, following observed changes in conditions) is close
for two reasons: (1) The number of firms in the real world is so large
that it suffices if some of them react as posited by the theory; and (2)
the profits of firms are only about "normal," that is, excess profits are
about zero, because of competitive pressures from newcomers (pliopo-
listic pressures [23, pp. 211-23]), so that profits below the maxi-
mum obtainable would in fact be net losses in an economic sense.
These two reasons do not hold in the theories of oligopoly and mo-
nopoly price.8 For these theories the real existence of firms (that is, an
9 The idea that profit maximization is the appropriate hypothesis for the theory of com-  petitive price but not necessarily for the theory of monopoly or oligopoly price has been  expressed repeatedly over the last century.  Pareto, for example, said that "pure economics" cannot tell us anything about the con-


---Economics-1967-0-18.txt---
empirical counterpart to the theoretical construct) is required, because
the explanation of changes in prices, inputs, and outputs is at the same
time an explanation of decisions of some particular firms, in the sense
of organizations of men acting in particular, sometimes unpredictable,
ways. Various attempts have been made to develop patterns of oligopo-
listic and monopolistic conduct and to correlate these patterns with
types of organization or with types of personalities exercising ultimate
decision-making power. The success has thus far been small; even if
the decision-making (say, pricing) in a particular firm was sometimes
satisfactorily modeled (for example, in a simulated computer pro-
gram), the model has usually not been transferable to other cases, to
predict decisions in other firms. I do not recall, moreover, that the be-
havior patterns in these cases were shown to be inconsistent with the
postulate of profit maximization.
Under these circumstances, retreat to simpler, less realistic models
of firms in oligopoly and monopoly positions is indicated. The first ap-
proach is to apply the polypolistic model, in full awareness that the ac-
tual facts are entirely different. In many instances the use of the po-
lypolistic model for situations which in our judgment would merit to
be labeled as oligopolistic will still yield satisfactory explanations and
predictions. Where this is not so, the analyst will resort to the use of
models of oligopolistic or monopolistic firms, postulating the simplest
possible pattern of action and reaction, dispensing with all peculiar at-
titudes and "special" strategies. Only where these simple models of oli-
gopolistic and monopolistic firms yield quite unsatisfactory predictions
will the analyst need to go further, to more special types of behavior,
provided he finds it worth while. It depends on the research interests
and on the problems under examination how much effort one wishes to
invest in behavioral research where the findings hold little promise of
yielding generalizations of wide applicability.
There are, however, some simple models of oligopolistic behavior
tinuing shifts of position of competing oligopolists, and we have to turn to "the observa-
tion of facts," which would show us the variety of possibilities [29, pp. 601-2].
Schumpeter, in 1928, had this to say about the dichotomy: "We have much less reason
to expect that monopolists will . . . charge an equilibrium price than we have in the case
of perfect competition; for competing producers must charge it as a rule under penalty
of economic death, whilst monopolists, although having a motive to charge the monopo-
listic equilibrium price, are not forced to do so, but may be prevented from doing so by
other motives" [33, p. 371].
Finally, Scitovsky in 1951 stated that "not only does the monopolist's secure market
position enable him to relax his efforts of maximizing profit, but his very position may
prevent his aiming at maximum profit. He may regard his immunity from competition as
precarious or be afraid of unfavorable publicity and public censure; and for either reason,
he may judge it wiser to refrain from making full use of his monopoly position. We con-
clude, therefore, that although in some cases the monopolist will aim at maximizing his
profit . . . in other cases-which may well be the important ones-he will refrain from
maximizing profit" [37, p. 3771.


---Economics-1967-0-19.txt---
which seem to be of sufficiently wide applicability. A model that equips
the oligopolistic decision-maker not under heavy competitive pressure
with an objective of gross-revenue ("sales") maximization, subject to
the constraint of satisfactory net-revenue ("profit") [2, p. 49], suc-
ceeds in explaining the lack of response to some cost-increasing events
observed in several instances. There are other simple models ex-
plaining the same phenomenon, and one may think of good reasons for
finding one model or another more satisfactory. If the sales-maximiza-
tion hypothesis can explain a greater variety of observed responses or
nonresponses than other hypotheses can, and if it seems to correspond
better with self-interpretations offered by interviewed businessmen, it
merits acceptance, at least for the time being.
An alternative to the maximization of sales is the maximization of
the growth rate of sales [3, p. 1086]. This hypothesis is especially
interesting because it involves an endogenous relation with profits:
while some of the growth of gross revenue may encroach on profits, it
does so with an automatic limit in that profits are needed to finance the
investment required for the growth of sales.
Another extension of the objective function proposed on the basis of
behavioral research combines two managerial preferences for specific
expenses of the firm with the usual profit motive. The two additional
motives are expenditures for staff personnel and expenditures for man-
agerial emoluments; both figure prominently in the utility functions of
executives of companies which, sheltered from competitive pressures,
make enough profits to allow management to indulge in these personal
desires [48, pp. 38-60].
All these "managerial-discretion models" are simple and sufficiently
general to allow relatively wide application. We shall have more to say
about them later.
Effective Competition and Managerial Discretion
In mapping out the area of applicability for theories of managerial
discretion, we have spoken of "oligopoly," "monopoly," and of "firms
not under heavy competitive pressure." These are rather vague guide-
posts, but unfortunately the literature has not been very helpful in as-
certaining precisely what it is that allows or restricts the exercise of
wide managerial discretion.
Some writers stress the size of the firm, suggesting that it is only in
the large firm that management can exercise discretion. Others stress
the condition of diffused ownership as the one that affords management
the opportunity of pursuing objectives other than maximization of
profits. Those who stress oligopoly as the domain for which objective
functions richer than profit maximization are needed are usually not
quite specific as to their criterion of an oligopoly position: it may be


---Economics-1967-0-20.txt---
fewness of firms active in the same industry, or the subjective state of
awareness of the interdependence of price making often characterized
as "conjectural variation," or simply the absence of aggressive compe-
tition for increasing shares, in the market. Others again stress closed
entry, or absence of newcomers' competition, as the essential condition
for a profit level sufficiently comfortable to allow managers to indulge
in the satisfaction of objectives other than maximization of profits.
To combine all these conditions would probably be far too restric-
tive; it would confine the application of managerial-discretion models
to large firms with diffused ownership, few competitors, full awareness
of interdependence in pricing, absence of agressive efforts by existing
competitors to increase their market shares, and little danger of new
competitors entering the field. The size of the firm may actually not be
relevant, and diffused ownership may not be a necessary condition for
some deviations from profit maximization to occur, say, in the interest
of larger sales or larger expenditures for staff. Fewness of competitors
may be more significant, chiefly because the danger of newcomers'
competition is likely to be small where the number of firms has been
few and continues to be few; partly also because the few competitors
may have learnt that aggressive price competition does not pay. The
essential conditions, it seems to me, are these two: that no newcomers
are likely to invade the field of the existing firms, and that none of the
existing firms tries to expand its sales at such a fast rate that it could
succeed only by encroaching on the business of its competitors.
Competition from newcomers, from aggressive expansionists, or
from importers is sometimes called "heavy," "vigorous," or "effec-
tive." The simplest meaning of these adjectival modifiers is this: a firm
is exposed to heavy, vigorous, or effective competition if it is kept
under continuing pressure to do something about its sales and its
profits position. Under this "competitive pressure" the firm is con-
stantly compelled to react to actual or potential losses in sales and/or
reductions in profits, so much so that the firm will not be able to pur-
sue any objectives other than the maximization of profits-for the sim-
ple reason that anything less than the highest obtainable profits would
be below the rate of return regarded as normal at the time.
I am aware of a defect in this definition: its criterion is lodged in
the effect rather than in an independently ascertainable condition. Per-
haps, though, "effective" is quite properly defined in this fashion,
namely, by whether certain effects are realized: competition is effective
if it continually depresses profits to the level regarded as the minimum
tolerable. What makes it effective is not part of the definition, but has
to be explained by the conditions of entry, aggressive attitudes on the
part of existing firms, or imports from abroad.
If my reasoning is accepted, several formulations proposed in the


---Economics-1967-0-21.txt---
literature will have to be amended. Managerial discretion will be a
function, not of the independence of the management from the control
of the owners, but chiefly of the independence of the management from
urgent worries about the sufficiency of earnings. If one insists, one
may still say that all managers are primiarly interested in their own
incomes. But, since it is clear that their long-term incomes are jeopar-
dized if profits go below the acceptable rate of return, maximization of
managerial incomes and maximization of profits come to to the same
thing if competition is effective.9
There can be no doubt about the fact that competition is not effec-
tive in many industries and that many, very many, firms are not exposed
to vigorous competition. It follows that managerial discretion can have
its way in a large enough number of firms to secure wide applicability
of well-designed managerial-discretion models-or to invite the use of
managerial total-utility models.
I was fully aware, when I wrote my 1946 article, that there were
many qualifications and exceptions to the principle of profit maximiza-
tion.'0 But I considered it hopeless for predictive purposes to work
with total-utility maximization and I did not see the possibility of com-
bining a few selected managerial goals with the profit motive.
Marginalism Extended: Total Utility
In order to show how hopeless it is to construct a comprehensive
total-utility model and obtain from it definite predictions of the effects
of changes in conditions upon the dispositions of the managers, one
merely has to visualize the large variety of possible "satisfactions" and
the still larger variety of things that may contribute to their attain-
'For competition to be effective it is not necessary that competition is either pure or
perfect or that all or any of the markets in which the firm buys or sells are perfect.
10 Several of my statements, if I presented them without source reference, might well be
mistaken for quotations from critics of marginalism, including behavioralists and man-
agerialists. Here are samples [21]: ". . . a business man is motivated by considerations
other than the maximization of money profits"; "it is preferable to separate the non-
pecuniary factors of business conduct from those which are regular items in the formation
of money profits" (p. 526); "one may presume that producing larger production volumes
[or] paying higher wage rates . . . than would be compatible with a maximum of money
profits may involve for the business man a gain in social prestige or a certain measure of
inner satisfaction"; "it is not impossible that considerations of this sort substantially
weaken the forces believed to be at work on the basis of a strictly pecuniary marginal
calculus"; for patriotic reasons during the war "many firms produced far beyond the point
of highest money profits"; "the conflict of interests between the hired managers and the
owners of the business" may call for "important qualifications" (p. 527); "the interest
of the former in inordinately large outlays or investments may be capable of descriptions
in terms of a pecuniary calculus, but it is not maximization of the firm's profits which
serves here as the standard of conduct" (pp. 527-28); "maximization of salaries and
bonuses of professional managers may constitute a standard of business conduct different
from that implied in the customary marginal analysis of the firm"; and "the extent to
which the two standards would result in sharply different action under otherwise similar
conditions is another open question in need of investigation" (p. 528).


---Economics-1967-0-22.txt---
ment. The satisfactions consist not only in receiving money incomes,
immediate or deferred, and various incomes in kind, but also in dis-
tributing incomes to others and in gaining prestige, power, self-esteem,
as well as in enjoying a good conscience and other pleasurable feelings.
What makes things really complicated is that the creation of these
satisfactions is related to very different flows of funds into and out of
the firm: some to gross revenue (sales volume), others to net revenue;
some to profits distributed, others to profits retained; some to invest-
ment outlays, others to company expenses. The managers' immediate
money incomes and some of the emoluments received in kind are part-
ly at the expense of profits, partly at the expense of corporate income
taxes (and every change in tax rates changes the trade-off ratios.)
The same is true of several other company expenses which add to the
prestige, power, and self-esteem of the managers. Special mention may
be made of the provision of stock options for managers, which are ei-
ther at the expense of the owners' equity (through watering down their
stock) or at the expense of potential capital gains on treasury stock
earmarked for such stock options, but which, on the other hand, may
be a powerful force aligning the managers' personal interests with the
goal of maximizing the net profits of the firm.
The point of it all is that the total utility of managers can be in-
creased by decisions which increase expenses at the expense of profits.
(Of course, this is confined to situations where profits are high enough
to stand encroachments by avoidable expenses-to situations, that is,
where the firm is not hard-pressed by competition.) The question is
how various changes in conditions will affect managerial decisions on
inputs, outputs, and prices if the objectives of management include the
gratification of preferences for certain expenses of the firm that com-
pete with the maximization of profits."
"Instead of cataloguing the various contributions to the "utility" of the management  and their relationships to the sources and uses of the firm's funds, one may wish to classify  the expenses of the firm with reference to "discretionary" decisions of the management  influenced by the decision-makers' preferences. Here is a tentative classification of this
sort:
1. Expenses required for the production of (a) current output of unchanged size,  (b) additional current output, with marginal cost not exceeding marginal revenue (hence,
contributing to higher profits), and (c) additional current output, with marginal cost  exceeding marginal revenue (hence, reducing profits).
2. Expenses not required for the production of current output, but increasing the pro-  ductive capacity or efficiency of the firm for future production.
3. Expenses for managerial personnel in the form of (a) salaries and bonuses, and  (b) services rendered to them for their convenience and pleasure.
4. Expenses not required for either current or future production, but (a) expected of
a profitable firm as a social service, and only slightly promoting the public image of
management, (b) widely recognized as contributing to the social or national benefit and  as indicative of the public spirit of the management, (c) contributing chiefly to the grati-
fication of personal desires of supervisory and managerial personnel, and (d) largely


---Economics-1967-0-23.txt---
For purposes of illustration let us reproduce in a literary form the
utility function of a management (perhaps of its "peak coordinator"
[28, pp. 190-91]) in full control and confident that stockholders will
not make any fuss as long as the firm makes a "normal" profit and
pays out a fair share of it in dividends. Total utility, which the man-
ager by his decisions will try to maximize, will be a function of a large
number of variables, by virtue of the contributions they make to his
pride, prestige, self-esteem, conscience, comfort, feeling of accomplish-
ment, material consumption, and anticipations of future benefits and
pleasures. Among the variables may be total profits of the firm, growth
rate of profits, rate of profits to investment, total sales, growth rate of
sales, increase in market share, dividends paid out, retained earnings,
increase in market value of stock, price-earnings ratio of stock, invest-
ment outlay, salary and bonus received, stock options received (capital
gains), expense accounts (consumption at company expense), services
received (automobile, chauffeur, lovely secretary, theatre tickets, con-
ferences at resorts), size of staff, expenses for public relations and ad-
vertising, expenses for research and development, technological and
other innovations, leadership in wage increases and good industrial re-
lations, expenses for public or private education and health, other con-
tributions to public interest and patriotic causes, free time for leisure
and recreation, and indications of influence over government, industry,
and society. This list of variables is, of course, only representative, not
exhaustive."2
Now what can one do with a utility function of this sort? Will it be
of much use in telling us what the firm will do with its freedom of ac-
tion if it has to respond to a change in conditions?
The answer will depend partly on a simple condition, namely,
whether the acceptable trade-off ratios between all the factors con-
tributing to total utility remain unchanged, or approximately the same,
if any one of them, say, total profit, increases. If this were the case, we
could shout hurrah or sigh a sigh of relief (depending on our tempera-
ment). For, if the marginal rates of substitution among all the various
"utilifactors" are constant, the distribution of funds among them will
remain unchanged with changes in conditions that increase or decrease
the total of funds available. Only if the cost of any of the factors
wasteful, that is, contributing nothing, and economizing nothing but managerial effort or  capability.
This list may be suggestive of the actions that may have to be taken when, after years  of ease and growth, the firm finds its profits declining or disappearing.
'Perhaps there ought to be a place on the list for some gratifications that are more
stable, less subject to quantitative variation, such as the pleasure of being known for  honesty and fairness, on the one hand, and for sharpness and shrewdness, on the other,  or at least the pleasure of being convinced of having and exercising these qualities. And  last, though not least, there is the general feeling of gratification from "running" a large,  well-known profitable, widely respected firm with growing assets and employment.


---Economics-1967-0-24.txt---
changed, say, the cost of staff personnel and, hence, the cost of prestige
and other benefits that accrue from having a sizable staff, would the
marginal rates of substitution be adapted to the new cost relation. In
such a case we might also perhaps be able to tell the kind of response
of the decision-makers.
Alas, the condition that the marginal rates of substitution are inde-
pendent of the total funds available is not likely to be satisfied; in ad-
dition, certain types of change in conditions have the bad habit of
affecting at the same time funds available and relative costs of utilifac-
tors. For example, an increase in the corporate income tax will change
the trade-off ratio between expensable outlays and profits in favor of
avoidable expenses.
Marginalism Extended: Choice of Maximanda
If we were interested only in a formal solution, and perhaps in a
proof of "existence" of an equilibrium position, we might be satisfied
with the maximization of total utility by those who effectively run the
firm. If, however, we want to predict the direction of the changes
which a given change in conditions is likely to bring about, then mere
formalism will not be enough. For predictive purposes we need more to
go by with the help of fewer variables. Maximization of money profits
is certainly the simplest "objective function," but it works only in the
case of firms exposed to vigorous competition. The management of a
firm that makes more than enough money need not go all out to maxi-
mize profits; it can afford to do a few other things that it likes, such as
serving what by its own lights it regards as the national interest or in-
dulging in other luxuries.
Would this imply "giving up" the principle of marginalism in the
theory of the profitable firm? This is chiefly a semantic question. I
have been inclined to use a more extended definition. In 1946, I called
marginalism "the logical process of finding a maximum" [21, p. 519].
I did not say that it had to be maximization of money profits-
though I struggled hard to justify the use of profit maximization in all
cases. In the meantime several writers have shown that profit maxi-
mization may not be a completely unambiguous objective, even where
it is used in splendid isolation from all competing goals, in that it may
refuse to yield unambiguous conclusions regarding the effects of cer-
tain changes, such as the effects of changes in profit taxes. In addition,
it has been shown that several workable "objective functions" can be
developed that give plausible results with a few relatively simple terms
added. Any of these functions that can be maximized, with or without
specific constraints, would still be a part of marginal analysis.
The choice of the maximandum is of course a pragmatic matter: we
should prefer one that yields sufficiently good approximations to what


---Economics-1967-0-25.txt---
we consider reasonable on the basis of empirical research, with wide
applicability and fruitfulness and with great simplicity. The compro-
mise among these goals that we accept is, admittedly, a somewhat
"subjective" standard of selection, but perfectly in line with the stan-
dard accepted in all scientific fields. Concessions to any one of these
desiderata must be at the expense of the others.
Let us list some of the alternative maximanda that have been sug-
gested and are available for our choice: Total quasi-rents over a short
period of time (But how short? This is good only for a freshman
course); total quasi-rents during the service-life of existing fixed assets
(But is a replaceable part of a machine a fixed asset? This works only
for a one-hoss shay); present value of all profits (after taxes) ex-
pected in the future, discounted at a "normal" or "competitive" rate;
internal rate of return to equity; equity of controlling stockholders;
present values of retained earnings; growth rate of equity; gross rate
of total assets; growth rate of gross revenue (sales); gross revenue
(sales), if net revenues (profits) are satisfactory (over what period of
time?); salaries, bonuses, and other accruals (including services in
kind) to management, over their entire lives; all accruals to manage-
ment plus expenditure for staff personnel, compatible with minimum
profits; all accruals to management, consistent with satisfactory
profits and gradually rising prices of corporate stock; and, of course,
the present values of the various combinations of flows mentioned.
Surely a much longer list could be prepared, but there is no use to
this. The point should be clear: profit maximization proper may mean
a variety of things-several entries apply to money profits-and in ad-
dition there are a few other maximanda of possible relevance. Inciden-
tally, if profits or accruals to stockholders are not explicitly included
in some of the entries, let no one believe that they are really out of the
picture. No management could try to maximize its own accruals in the
long run if it completely disregarded the interests of the stockholders.
Hence, all maximanda are subject to the constraint of some minimum
benefits to the owners of the business in the form of dividends, capital
gains, or both."3
Subjective Information and the Charge of Tautology
I have a few remaining tasks, and one of them is to lay a ghost, one
that has long played tricks on economists and led them astray. He has
12 The four "managerial" variables included in the list-sales, growth of sales, expenses for
staff, and emoluments to the management-may well be the most important deviations from
profit maximization, although I may easily be persuaded of the existence of other "extrava-
gances" of management. Among the managements of our large corporations there are so
many civic-minded men, bursting with social responsibility and cocksure of their ability to
know what is in the national interest, that I incline to the thought that rather serious
deviations from the profit motive occur in the area of virtuous striving for the so-called


---Economics-1967-0-26.txt---
done this in their discussions of the subject of information, its avail-
ability, its uncertainty, and its subjectivity. I mean, of course, infor-
mation available to the "firm," and this raises the question whether we
mean the firm as a purely theoretical construct or the firm as an orga-
nization of real people or anything else.
The firm as a theoretical construct has exactly the kind of informa-
tion the theorist chooses to endow it with in order to design a good,
useful theory. The firm as an organization of real people has the infor-
mation system that it actually happens to have and which, in some in-
stances, the management scientists (operations researchers) have suc-
ceeded in developing. For purposes of competitive price and allocation
theory, it does not make much difference whether the information
which we assume the firm to have concerning the conditions of supply,
production, and demand under which it works is correct or incorrect,
as long as we may safely assume that any change in these conditions is
registered correctly. If we want to inquire into the effects of a change
in wage rates or tax rates or something of this sort, we must of course
take it for granted that the decision-makers who supposedly react to
the change have taken notice of it. But whether their "previous" store
of information-from which they started when the change occurred-
was accurate or not will only in exceptional instances make a qualita-
tive difference to the reactions.
This important difference between information about conditions and
information about changes in conditions has eluded several writers,
who shouted "tautology" when they confronted my statements about
the subjectivity of information. They reasoned like this: If firms act
on the basis of information which is entirely subjective, then anything
they do may be said to follow from whatever they believe they know:
hence, the assumption of subjectivism defeats any explanatory pur-
poses. This is a sad confusion. In teaching elementary economics we
ought to be able to make our students grasp the difference between the
shape and position of a curve, on the one hand, and the shift of a
curve, on the other. The direction of the effects which we derive from
the shift is usually, though not always, independent of the shape and
position of the original curve. We need not fuss about the curve
reflecting "accurate information" if we only want to see what happens
when the curve shifts in a certain direction.
common good. I hope I am not excessively naive if I believe that the excess profits
secured through restrictions on competition are to no small extent used for what the
discretionary managers believe to be worthy causes. But I see no way of formulating any
hypotheses that would enable us to predict either just what the firms' outlays in the public
interest will be or how they will affect total output in the long run. I suppose that
Boulding's witty question, "do we maximize profit subject to the constraints of morality
or do we maximize virtue subject to the constraints of satisfactory profits? [7, p. 17]
was not intended to suggest an answer with empirically fertile conclusions.


---Economics-1967-0-27.txt---
Since ghosts are hardy creatures, the laying of this one will probably
not constitute a once-and-for-all execution. We shall probably see him
again thumbing his nose at us in the next textbook or in the next issue
of one of our journals.
Imperfect Information and the Question of "Satisficing" Behavior
The same confusion sometimes encumbers the discussions about the
alleged "imperfection" of knowledge available to firms for their ration-
al decision-making [39, pp. xxiv-xxvi, 40-41, 81-83, 241-42] and the
screens and blockages in "the flow of information through the hierar-
chies of the organization" [27, pp. 228-29]. But what can be "imper-
fect" about the information on, say, a tax increase? Why should it
take special theories of bureaucracy to explain how the news of a wage
increase "flows" through various hierarchical levels up or down or
across? Yet this, and this alone, is the information that is essentially
involved in the theory of prices and allocation, since it is the adjust-
ment to such changes in conditions for which the postulate of maxi-
mizing behavior is employed.
One can understand, of course, how the confusion arose. The propo-
nents of managerial analysis have the creditable ambition to reorga-
nize firms in such a way that their managements can really, as a matter
of actual fact, maximize the results of their performance, not only in
adjusting to changes in conditions, but also in making the most ration-
al arrangements on the basis of the complete environment in which
they operate.'4 Incidentally, not only "normative micro-economics," as
management science has been called [40, p. 279], has this ambition;
many propositions of welfare economics are also based on such presup-
positions.
As a matter of fact, the interesting distinction made between
"satisficing" and "maximizing" or "optimizing" behavior [39, pp. xxiv-
xxvi] [40, pp. 262-65] had its origin in precisely the same issue;
management, realizing the complexity of the calculations and the im-
perfection of the data that would have to be employed in any deter-
mination of "optimal" decisions, cannot help being satisfied with some-
thing less: its behavior will be only "satisficing." What behavior? The
mere adjustment to a simple change or the coordinated, integrated
whole of its activities? Evidently, only the latter is the overly ambi-
14 "Economic man deals with the 'real world' in all its complexity," says Herbert Simon
[39, p. xxv]. The homo oeconomicus I have encountered in the literature was not such a
perfectionist. Incidentally, even Simon's "economic man," two years before the ambitious
one just quoted, did not have "absolutely complete," but only "impressively clear and
voluminous" knowledge of the "relevant aspects of his environment" [38, p. 99]. My
point is that we ought to distinguish perfect or imperfect knowledge of (a) the entire
environment, (b) the relevant aspects of the entire environment, (c) the relevant changes
in environmental conditions.


---Economics-1967-0-28.txt---
tious aim. The theory of prices and allocation, viewed as a theory of
adjustment to change, does not call for impossible performances."5 I
ask you to remember what I spelled out, twenty years ago, about the
difference between exact estimates and calculations, on the one hand,
and "sizing up" in nonnumerical terms, on the other [21, pp. 524-25,
534-35]. And I ask you to realize how many more good predictions
can be made on the basis of the assumption that firms try to maximize
their profits than on the basis of the assumption that they want no
more than satisfactory profits. Take one illustration: if an easy-money
policy is introduced, we expect that some firms will increase their bor-
rowings, some firms will increase their purchases, some firms will sell
at higher prices, and some firms will increase their output. But if every-
body was satisfied before the change, we cannot infer any of these
things. On the other hand, if we assume that firms prefer a larger
profit to a smaller one, all the mentioned consequences follow from the
simple model.
The Twenty-one Concepts of the Firm
Several times in this paper I have spoken of the fallacy of misplaced
concreteness, committed by mistaking a thought-object for an object
of sense perception, that is, for anything in the real, empirical world.
My warnings might have given rise to another confusion, namely, that
there are only two concepts of the firm. There are many more, and I
do not wish to suppress altogether my strong taxonomic propensities. I
shall offer a list of ten different contexts calling for even more different
concepts, some theoretical, some more empirical.
One of my favorite philosophers, who was a past-master of the art
of making fine distinctions, enumerated 13 concepts of "pragmatism"
[18], 66 concepts of "nature" [19, pp. 447-56], and "a great
number" of concepts of "God."'6 I am sure there are at least 21 con-
cepts of the firm employed in the literature of business and economics,
"5Suppose the government imposes a 15 per cent surcharge on all import duties. The
theory of the profit-maximizing firm will without hesitation tell us that imports will de-
cline. What will the theory of the satisficing firm tell us? "Models of satisficing behavior
are richer than models of maximizing behavior, because they treat not only of equilibrium
but of the method of reaching it as well. Psychological studies of the formation and change
of aspiration levels support propositions of the following kinds. (a) When performance
falls short of the level of aspiration, search behavior (particularly search for new alter-
natives of action) is induced. (b) At the same time, the level of aspiration begins to ad-
just itself downward until goals reach levels that are practically attainable. (c) If the
two mechanisms just listed operate too slowly to adapt aspirations to performance, emo-
tional behavior-apathy or aggression, for example-will replace rational adaptive be-
havior" [40, p. 263]. I admit that this is an unfair use of the theory of satisficing, but
I wanted to show that everything has its place and no theory can be suitable to all
problems. I suspect, however, that Simon's theory of satisficing behavior will yield neither
qu1antitaftive nor qualitative predictions.  "0Lovejoy Denied Approval by Sen-ate Group," The Baltimore Sun, April 1, 1951.


---Economics-1967-0-29.txt---
but I shall exercise great forbearance and confine myself to a selection.
Everyone may join in the game and fill in what I leave out. I shall first
state the context, then delimit the concept, and finally add a few words
of explanation.
1. In the theory of competitive prices and allocation, the firm is an
imaginary reactor to environmental changes. By "imaginary" I mean
to stress that this a pure construct for which there need not exist an
empirical counterpart. By "reactor" I mean to deny that this robot or
puppet can ever have a will of his own: he is the theorist's creature,
programmed to respond in the predetermined way.
2. In the theory of innovation and growth, the firm is an imaginary
or a typical reactor or initiator. Depending on which theory one has in
mind, we see that several combinations are possible. In the theory of
"entrepreneurial innovation" by men of very special qualities [34, pp.
78-94] the entrepreneur is neither imaginary nor a mere reactor; he
is a typical initiator. By "typical" I do not refer to the ideal type of
German sociology [47, p. 44] [35, pp. 20-63, 81] [25, pp. 21-57],
but rather to the common-sense kind of person that many of us have
met in person or, at least, have heard about. On the other hand, there
are also theories of "induced invention"-assuming latent inventive-
ness (though an invention can never be a mere reaction)-and theories
of "induced growth," employing the construct of the imaginary reac-
tor.
3. In welfare economics, the firm is an imaginary or a typical reac-
tor or initiator with accurate knowledge of his opportunities. De-
pending on the proposition in question, all combinations are again pos-
sible, but in any case a new requirement is introduced: accurate
knowledge of the environmental conditions on the part of all reactors
and initiators. For, in contrast to the theory of price and allocation,
the welfare theorist wants to ascertain, not only in which direction
price, input, and output will move in response to a change, but also
whether this move will increase or reduce welfare. For such an exercise
it is no longer irrelevant whether the subjective information of the
firms is correct or false.
4. In the theory of oligopoly and monopoly, the firm is a typical
reactor and initiator in a small (or zero) interacting group. I have ex-
plained earlier why a theory of oligopoly with nothing but imaginary
reactors may not be widely applicable.
5. In the theory of organization (or bureaucracy), the firm is a typ-
ical cooperative system with authoritative coordination. I have ac-
cepted this formulation from one of the authorities [28, p. 187] and
thus may disclaim responsibility for it.
6. In management science (or the art of business management), the
firm is a functional information system and decision-making system


---Economics-1967-0-30.txt---
for typical business operations. The normative nature of management
science should be stressed. Several management scientists include oper-
ations research among the agenda of management science. I take this
to mean that the principal techniques of operations research of such
matters as inventory problems, replacement problems, search prob-
lems, queueing problems, and routing problems have to be mastered by
the management scientist. He should, however, make a distinction be-
tween the science and its application: the science deals with typical
systems, but is applied to particular cases.
7. In operations research and consultation, the firm is an actual or
potential client for advice on optimal performance. In this context the
reference is not to the techniques and principles of operations research
but rather to the particular projects planned or undertaken.
8. In accounting theory, the firm is a collection of assets and liabili-
ties. It should be clear how different this concept is from most of the
others.
9. In legal theory and practice, the firm is a juridical person with
property, claims, and obligations. This may be a very deficient for-
mulation; I defer to the experts, who will surely correct it.
10. In statistical description (such as the Census of Manufactures)
the firm is a business organization under a single management or a
self-employed person with one or more employees or with an estab-
lished place of business. I have adopted here the definition used by the
U.S. Census.
This exercise should have succeeded in showing how ludicrous the
efforts of some writers are to attempt one definition of the firm as used
in economic analysis, or to make statements supposedly true of "the"
firm, or of "its" behavior, or what not. Scholars ought to be aware of
equivocations and should not be snared by them.
A Sense of Proportion
I hope there will be no argument about which concept of the firm is
the most important or the most useful. Since they serve different pur-
poses, such an argument would be pointless. It would degenerate into
childish claims about one area of study being more useful than an-
other.
I also hope the specialist who uses one concept of the firm will desist
from trying to persuade others to accept his own tried and trusted con-
cept for entirely different purposes. The concept of the firm in organi-
zation theory, for example, need not at all be suitable for accounting
theory or legal theory; and I know it is not suitable for either competi-
tive price theory or for oligopoly theory.
Most of the controversies about the "firm" have been due to misun-


---Economics-1967-0-31.txt---
derstandings about what the other specialist was doing. Many people
cannot understand that others may be talking about altogether
different things when they use the same words.
I am not happy about the practice of calling any study just because
it deals with or employs a concept of the firm "economics" or "micro-
economics." But we cannot issue licenses for the use of such terms
and, hence, must put up with their rather free use. My own prejudices
balk at designating organization theory as economics-but other peo-
ple's prejudices are probably different from mine, and we gain little or
nothing from arguing about the correct scope of our field.
Now what conclusions from all our reviewing may we draw on the
conflicts between marginal analysis, behavioral theory, and managerial
theory of the firm? Fortunately, not much time is being wasted on de-
scriptive studies of a narrowly behaviorist kind, in the sense of re-
cording observed behavior without any prior theoretical design. Most
proponents of behavioral studies of the firm are too competent theo-
rists for that. As far as the proponents of managerial theories are con-
cerned, they have never claimed to be anything but marginalists, and
the behavior goals they have selected as worthy for incorporation into
behavior equations, along with the goal of making profits, were given a
differentiable form so that they could become part of marginal
analysis.17 Thus, instead of a heated contest between marginalism and
managerialism in the theory of the firm, a marriage between the two
has come about.
Not all marriages, these days, are permanent; divorces are frequent.
Whether this marriage will last or end in divorce will depend chiefly on
what offspring it will produce. If the match of the profit hypothesis
with the various managerial hypotheses proves fertile of sufficiently
interesting deductions, the prospects of a lasting marriage are good.
It is not easy to judge the future sterility or fertility of this mar-
riage between marginalism and managerialism, because most of us are
inclined to underrate the kinds of problem on which we have never
T While under profit maximization MR-MC = 0, sales maximization requires that  MR = 0; hence, for some of the output sold marginal revenue is less than marginal cost,  which cuts into profits. A minimum-profit constraint sets a limit to this.  In the case of maximization of the growth rate of sales the limit on nonremunerative
selling is built into the objective itself because a growth of productive assets is required  to support the growth of sales, and the acquisition of these assets presupposes a sufficiency
of profits, either for internal financing or as a basis for outside finance [3, pp. 1086-871.
If at any time sales were pushed too hard at the expense of profits, there would arise a
shortage of funds for acquiring the productive assets needed for producing more output.
Thus no separate minimum-profit constraint has to be imposed, since it is inherent in
the objective of maximization of the growth of sales. It should be understood, however,
that the growth rate of assets under this objective is still less than it could be under  straight profit maximization. (This shows why we should never speak of the "growth of  the firm" without specifying by what criterion we measure it.)


---Economics-1967-0-32.txt---
worked: we have a bias in favor of our own research experience. Most
of the researchers on behavioral versions of the theory of the firm look
for their problems to the records of selected large corporations. They
take it for granted that their theory must be designed to explain and
predict the behavior of these firms. This, however, is less so in the case
of economists engaged in the analysis of relative prices, inputs, and
outputs. They look for their problems to the records of entire indus-
tries or industrial sectors. To be sure, some industries are dominated
by large corporations, yet the accent of the analysis is not on the be-
havior of these firms but at best on some of the results of that behav-
ior. Where the focus is not on the behavior of the firm, a theory that
requires information on particular firms to be "plugged in" seems to
them less serviceable than a more general theory, at least as long as
only qualitative, not numerical, results are sought. Hence, even if the
"partial-equilibrium analyst" knows full well that the actual situation
is not a really competitive one, he probably will still make a first try
using the competitive model with good old-fashioned profit maximiza-
tion. And if the results appear too odd, appropriate qualifications may
still be able to take care of them more simply than if he had started
with a cumbersome managerial model. (In saying this, I am showing
my bias.)
It is revealing to ask what kind of theory we would apply, at least in
a first approximation, if we were called upon to predict the results of
various kinds of public-policy measures. For questions regarding
short-run effects of changes in the corporation income tax (or an ex-
cess-profits tax) I believe a strong case can be made in favor of a
model of the firm with some managerial variables. If the problem is
whether an increase in cigarette taxes is likely to be fully shifted onto
the consumer or what portion of it may be absorbed by the producers,
I may feel safer with a model that includes managerial objectives. If,
however, the problem is what qualitative effects an increase in the im-
port duty on a material used in several industries will have on its im-
ports and on the prices and outputs of the various products of the in-
dustries in question, I would be inclined to work with the simple hy-
pothesis of profit maximization. I would find it far too cumbersome in
this case to go down to the level of the "real" firms; I could probably
not obtain the necessary data and, even if I did, I might not be able to
rely on the composite results obtained from a firm-by-firm analysis.
The old theory of the firm, where all firms are pure fictions, may give
me-in this case-most of the answers, in a rough and ready way, not
with any ntumerical precision, but with sufficient reliability regarding
the directions of change.
I conclude that the choice of the theory has to depend on the prob-


---Economics-1967-0-33.txt---
lem we have to solve.'8 Three conditions seem to be decisive in assign-
ing the type of approach to the type of problem. The simple marginal
formula based on profit maximization is suitable where (1) large
groups of firms are involved and nothing has to be predicted about
particular firms, (2) the effects of a specified change in conditions
upon prices, inputs, and outputs are to be explained or predicted rather
than the values of these magnitudes before or after the change, and
nothing has to be said about the "total situation" or general develop-
ments, and (3) only qualitative answers, that is, answers about direc-
tions of change, are sought rather than precise numerical results. Man-
agerial marginalism is more suitable to problems concerning particular
firms and calling for numerical answers. And, I am sure, there are also
some problems to which behavioral theory may be the most helpful ap-
proach. My impression is that it will be entirely concerned with partic-
ular firms and perhaps designed to give answers of a normative, that
is, advisory nature.
It looks as if I had prepared the ground for a love feast: I have
made polite bows in all directions and have tuned up for a hymn in
praise of peaceful coexistence of allegedly antagonistic positions. But I
cannot help raising a question which may tear open some of the
wounds of the battle of 1946. The question is whether the effects of an
effective increase in minimum wages upon the employment of labor of
low productivity can, at our present state of knowledge, be fruitfully
analyzed with any other model than that of simple marginalism based
on unadulterated profit maximization.
If I answer in the negative, does this mean that we are back at the
old quarrel and have not learned anything? It does not mean this.
Deficiencies in marginal analysis have been shown and recognized;
and a great deal of good empirical as well as theoretical work has been
accomplished. But the deficiencies dealt with were not just those which
the critics twenty years ago attacked. That attack questioned the ap-
plicability of marginal analysis to the employment effects of wage in-
creases in industries with many firms presumably under heavy compe-
tition [16, pp. 64, 75-77]. In such circumstances the managerial the-
ories of the firm, according to their proponents, do not apply. On this
narrow issue, therefore, the old-type marginalist cannot retreat.
' As a matter of fact, it will also depend on the research techniques which the appoinite(1
analyst has learned to master; we can eliminate this bias by assuming an ideal analyst
equally adept in all techniques.
REFERENCES
1. C. I. BARNARD, Functions of the Executive. Cambridge, Mass. 1938.
2. W. J. BAUMOL, Business Behavior, Value and Growth. New York 1959.


---Economics-1967-0-34.txt---
3. , "On the Theory of the Expansion of the Firm," Am. Econ. Rev.,
Dec. 1962, 52, 1078-87.
4. , Economic Theory and Operations Analysis, 2nd ed. Englewood
Cliffs, N.J. 1965.
5. K. E. BOULDING, A Reconstruction of Economics. New York 1950.
6. , "Implications for General Economics of More Realistic Theories
of the Firm," Am. Econ. Rev., Proc., May 1952, 42, 35-44.
7. , "Present Position of the Theory of the Firm," in K. E. Boulding
and W. A. Spivey, Linear Programming and the Theory of the Firm,
New York 1960, pp. 1-17.
8. E. H. CHAMBERLIN, The Theory of Monopolistic Competition; A Re-
orientation of the Theory of Value. Cambridge, Mass. 1933.
9. A. A. COURNOT, Recherches sur les principes mathematiques de la theorie
des richesses, Paris 1838. English transl. by N. T. Bacon under the title
Researches into the Mathematical Principles of the Theory of Wealth,
New York 1897, reprinted 1927.
10. R. M. CYERT AND J. G. MARCH, Behavioral Theory of the Firm. Engle-
wood Cliffs, N.J. 1963.
11. S. M. DANCOFF, "Does the Neutrino Really Exist?" Bull. Atomic
Scientists, June 1952, 8, 139-41.
12. R. A. GORDON, "Short-Period Price Determination in Theory and Prac-
tice," Am. Econ. Rev., June 1948, 38, 265-88.
13. , Business Leadership in the Large Corporation, 2nd ed. with a
new preface, Berkeley 1961.
14. R. L. HALL AND C. J. HITCH, "Price Theory and Business Behaviour,"
Oxford Econ. Papers, May 1939, 2, 12-45. Reprinted in T. Wilson, ed.,
Oxford Studies in the Price Mechanism, Oxford 1951, pp. 107-38.
15. S. R. KRUPP, "Theoretical Explanation and the Nature of the Firm,"
Western Econ. Jour., Summer 1963, 1, 191-204.
16. R. A. LESTER, "Shortcomings of Marginal Analysis for Wage-Employ-
ment Problems," Am. Econ. Rev., March 1946, 36, 63-82.
17. , "Marginalism, Minimum Wages, and Labor Markets," Am.
Econ. Rev., March 1947, 37, 135-48.
18. A. 0. LOVEJOY, "The Thirteen Pragmatisms," Jour. Philosophy, Jan. 2,
1908, 8, 5-12, 29-39. Reprinted in The Thirteen Pragmatisms and Other
Essays, Baltimore 1963.
19. A. 0. LOVEJOY AND G. BOAS, Primitivism and Related Ideas in Antiquity.
Baltimore 1935.
20. F. MACHLUP, "Evaluation of the Practical Significance of the Theory of
Monopolistic Competition," Am. Econ. Rev., June 1939, 29, 277-36.
21. , "Marginal Analysis and Empirical Research," Am. Econ. Rev.,
Sept. 1946, 36, 519-54.
22. , "Rejoinder to an Antimarginalist," Am. Econ. Rev., March
1947, 37, 148-54.
23. , The Economics of Sellers' Competition. Baltimore 1952.
24. , "The Problem of Verification in Economics," So. Econ. Jour.,
July 1955, 22, 1-21.


---Economics-1967-0-35.txt---
25. , "Idealtypus, Wirklichkeit, und Konstruktion," Ordo, 1960-1961,
2 1-57.
26. , Essays on Economic Semantics. Englewood Cliffs, N.J. 1963.
27. R. J. MONSEN AND A. DOWNS, "A Theory of Large Managerial Firms,"
Jour. Pol. Econ., June 1965, 73, 221-36.
28. A. G. PAPANDREOU, "Some Basic Problems in the Theory of the Firm,"
in B. F. Haley, ed., A Survey of Contemporary Economics, Vol. II,
Homewood, Ill. 1952, pp. 183-219.
29. V. PARETO, Manuel d'economie politique, 2nd ed. Paris 1927.
30. K. R. POPPER, Conjectures and refutations. New York and London 1962.
31. M. REDER, "A Reconsideration of the Marginal Productivity Theory,"
Jour. Pol. Econ., Oct. 1947, 55, 450-58.
32. J. ROBINSON, The Economics of Imperfect Competition. London 1933.
33. J. A. SCHUMPETER, "The Instability of Capitalism," Econ. Jour., Sept.
1928, 38, 361-86.
34. , The Theory of Economic Development. Cambridge, Mass. 1934.
35. A. SCHUTZ, Collected Papers, Vol. II. The Hague 1964.
36. T. SCITOVSKY, "A Note on Profit Maximisation and its Implications,"
Rev. Econ. Stud., Winter 1943, 11, 57-60. Reprinted in AEA, Readings
in Price Theory, Homewood, Ill. 1952, pp. 352-58.
37. , Welfare and Competition. Chicago 1951.
38. H. A. SIMON, "A Behavioral Model of Rational Choice," Quart. Jour.
Econ., Feb. 1955, 69, 99-118.
39. ,Administrative Behavior, 2nd ed. New York 1957.
40. , "Theories of Decision-Making in Economics and Behavioral
Science," Am. Econ. Rev., June 1959, 49, 253-83.
41. H. VON STACKELBERG, Marktform und Gleichgewicht. Vienna 1934.
42. L. J. STADLER, "The Gene," Science, Nov. 19, 1954, 120, 811-19.
43. G. J. STIGLER, "The Economics of Minimum Wage Legislation," Am.
Econ. Rev., June 1946, 36, 358-65.
44. ,"Professor Lester and the Marginalists," Am. Econ. Rev., March
1947, 37, 154-57.
45. H. B. THORELLI, "The Political Economy of the Firm: Basis for a New
Theory of Competition?" Schweiz Zeitschr. Volkswirtschaft und Stat.,
1965, 101, 248-62.
46. T. VEBLEN, The Instinct of Workmanship and the State of the Industrial
Arts. New York 1914.
47. M. WEBER, On the Methodology of the Social Sciences, transl. and ed.
by E. A. Shils and H. A. Finch, Glencoe, Ill. 1949.
48. 0. E. WILLIAMSON, Economics of Discretionary Behavior: Managerial
Objectives in a Theory of the Firm. Englewood Cliffs, N.J. 1964.


---Economics-1968-0-03.txt---
There is wide agreement about the major goals of economic policy:
high employment, stable prices, and rapid growth. There is less agree-
ment that these goals are mutually compatible or, among those who re-
gard them as incompatible, about the terms at which they can and
should be substituted for one another. There is least agreement about
the role that various instruments of policy can and should play in
achieving the several goals.
My topic for tonight is the role of one such instrument-monetary
policy. What can it contribute? And how should it be conducted to con-
tribute the most? Opinion on these questions has fluctuated widely. In
the first flush of enthusiasm about the newly created Federal Reserve
System, many observers attributed the relative stability of the 1920s to
the System's capacity for fine tuning-to apply an apt modern term. It
came to be widely believed that a new era had arrived in which busi-
ness cycles had been rendered obsolete by advances in monetary tech-
nology. This opinion was shared by economist and layman alike,
though, of course, there were some dissonant voices. The Great Con-
traction destroyed this naive attitude. Opinion swung to the other ex-
treme. Monetary policy was a string. You could pull on it to stop infla-
tion but you could not push on it to halt recession. You could lead a
horse to water but you could not make him drink. Such theory by
aphorism was soon replaced by Keynes' rigorous and sophisticated
analysis.
Keynes offered simultaneously an explanation for the presumed im-
potence of monetary policy to stem the depression, a nonmonetary in-
terpretation of the depression, and an alternative to monetary policy


---Economics-1968-0-04.txt---
for meeting the depression and his offering was avidly accepted. If li-
quidity preference is absolute or nearly so-as Keynes believed likely
in times of heavy unemployment-interest rates cannot be lowered by
monetary measures. If investment and consumption are little affected
by interest rates-as Hansen and many of Keynes' other American dis-
ciples came to believe-lower interest rates, even if they could be
achieved, would do little good. Monetary policy is twice damned. The
contraction, set in train, on this view, by a collapse of investment or by
a shortage of investment opportunities or by stubborn thriftiness, could
not, it was argued, have been stopped by monetary measures. But there
was available an alternative-fiscal policy. Government spending could
make up for insufficient private investment. Tax reductions could un-
dermine stubborn thriftiness.
The wide acceptance of these views in the economics profession
meant that for some two decades monetary policy was believed by all
but a few reactionary souls to have been rendered obsolete by new eco-
nomic knowledge. Money did not matter. Its only role was the minor
one of keeping interest rates low, in order to hold down interest pay-
ments in the government budget, contribute to the "euthanasia of the
rentier," and maybe, stimulate investment a bit to assist government
spending in maintaining a high level of aggregate demand.
These views produced a widespread adoption of cheap money poli-
cies after the war. And they received a rude shock when these policies
failed in country after country, when central bank after central bank
was forced to give up the pretense that it could indefinitely keep "the"
rate of interest at a low level. In this country, the public denouement
came with the Federal Reserve-Treasury Accord in 1951, although the
policy of pegging government bond prices was not formally abandoned
until 1953. Inflation, stimulated by cheap money policies, not the
widely heralded postwar depression, turned out to be the order of the
day. The result was the beginning of a revival of belief in the potency
of monetary policy.
This revival was strongly fostered among economists by the theoreti-
cal developments initiated by Haberler but named for Pigou that
pointed out a channel-namely, changes in wealth-whereby changes
in the real quantity of money can affect aggregate demand even if they
do not alter interest rates. These theoretical developments did not un-
dermine Keynes' argument against the potency of orthodox monetary
measures when liquidity preference is absolute since under such cir-
cumstances the usual monetary operations involve simply substituting
money for other assets without changing total wealth. But they did
show how changes in the quantity of money produced in other ways
could affect total spending even under such circumstances. And, more


---Economics-1968-0-05.txt---
fundamentally, they did undermine Keynes' key theoretical proposi-
tion, namely, that even in a world of flexible prices, a position of equi-
librium at full employment might not exist. Henceforth, unemployment
had again to be explained by rigidities or imperfections, not as the nat-
ural outcome of a fully operative market process.
The revival of belief in the potency of monetary policy was fostered
also by a re-evaluation of the role money played from 1929 to 1933.
Keynes and most other economists of the time believed that the Great
Contraction in the United States occurred despite aggressive expansion-
ary policies by the monetary authorities-that they did their best but
their best was not good enough.' Recent studies have demonstrated
that the facts are precisely the reverse: the U.S. monetary authorities
followed highly deflationary policies. The quantity of money in the
United States fell by one-third in the course of the contraction. And it
fell not because there were no willing borrowers-not because the horse
would not drink. It fell because the Federal Reserve System forced or
permitted a sharp reduction in the monetary base, because it failed to
exercise the responsibilities assigned to it in the Federal Reserve Act to
provide liquidity to the banking system. The Great Contraction is
tragic testimony to the power of monetary policy-not, as Keynes and
so many of his contemporaries believed, evidence of its impotence.
In the United States the revival of belief in the potency of monetary
policy was strengthened also by increasing disillusionment with fiscal
policy, not so much with its potential to affect aggregate demand as
with the practical and political feasibility of so using it. Expenditures
turned out to respond sluggishly and with long lags to attempts to ad-
just them to the course of economic activity, so emphasis shifted to
taxes. But here political factors entered with a vengeance to prevent
prompt adjustment to presumed need, as has been so graphically illus-
trated in the months since I wrote the first draft of this talk. "Fine tun-
ing" is a marvelously evocative phrase in this electronic age, but it has
little resemblance to what is possible in practice-not, I might add, an
unmixed evil.
It is hard to realize how radical has been the change in professional
opinion on the role of money. Hardly an economist today accepts views
that were the common coin some two decades ago. Let me cite a f ew
examples.
In a talk published in 1945, E. A. Goldenweiser, then Director of the
Research Division of the Federal Reserve Board, described the pri-
mary objective of monetary policy as being to "maintain the value of
Government bonds.... This country" he wrote, "will have to adjust to
'In [2], I have argued that Henry Simons shared this view with Keynes, and that it
accounts for the policy changes that he recommended.


---Economics-1968-0-06.txt---
a 212 per cent interest rate as the return on safe, long-time money, be-
cause the time has come when returns on pioneering capital can no
longer be unlimited as they were in the past" [4, p. 1 17].
In a book on Financing A merican Prosperity, edited by Paul Homan
and Fritz Machlup and published in 1945, Alvin Hansen devotes nine
pages of text to the "savings-investment problem" without finding any
need to use the words "interest rate" or any close facsimile thereto [5,
pp. 218-27]. In his contribution to this volume, Fritz Machlup wrote,
"Questions regarding the rate of interest, in particular regarding its
variation or its stability, may not be among the most vital problems of
the postwar economy, but they are certainly among the perplexing
ones" [5, p. 466]. In his contribution, John H. Williams-not only
professor at Harvard but also a long-time adviser to the New York
Federal Reserve Bank- wrote, "I can see no prospect of revival of a
general monetary control in the postwar period" [5, p. 383].
Another of the volumes dealing with postwar policy that appeared at
this time, Planning and Paying for Full Employment, was edited by
Abba P. Lerner and Frank D. Graham [6] and had contributors of all
shades of professional opinion-from Henry Simons and Frank Gra-
ham to Abba Lerner and Hans Neisser. Yet Albert Halasi, in his excel-
lent summary of the papers, was able to say, "Our contributors do not
discuss the question of money supply. . . . The contributors make no
special mention of credit policy to remedy actual depressions.... Infla-
tion ... might be fought more effectively by raising interest rates....
But . . . other anti-inflationary measures . . . are preferable" [6, pp.
23-24]. A Survey of Contemporary Economics, edited by Howard Ellis
and published in 1948, was an "official" attempt to codify the state of
economic thought of the time. In his contribution, Arthur Smithies
wrote, "In the field of compensatory action, I believe fiscal policy must
shoulder most of the load. Its chief rival, monetary policy, seems to be
disqualified on institutional grounds. This country appears to be com-
mitted to something like the present low level of interest rates on a
long-term basis" [1, p. 208 ].
These quotations suggest the flavor of professional thought some two
decades ago. If you wish to go further in this humbling inquiry, I rec-
ommend that you compare the sections on money-when you can find
them-in the Principles texts of the early postwar years with the
lengthy sections in the current crop even, or especially, when the early
and recent Principles are different editions of the same work.
The pendulum has swung far since then, if not all the way to the po-
sition of the late 1920s, at least much closer to that position than to the
position of 1945. There are of course many differences between then
and now, less in the potency attributed to monetary policy than in the


---Economics-1968-0-07.txt---
roles assigned to it and the criteria by which the profession believes
monetary policy should be guided. Then, the chief roles assigned mone-
tary policy were to promote price stability and to preserve the gold
standard; the chief criteria of monetary policy were the state of the
"money market," the extent of "speculation" and the movement of
gold. Today, primacy is assigned to the promotion of full employment,
with the prevention of inflation a continuing but definitely secondary
objective. And there is major disagreement about criteria of policy,
varyino from emphasis on money market conditions, interest rates, and
the quantity of money to the belief that the state of employment itself
should be the proximate criterion of policy.
I stress nonetheless the similarity between the views that prevailed in
the late 'twenties and those that prevail today because I fear that, now
as then, the pendulum may well have swung too far, that, now as then,
we are in danger of assigning to monetary policy a larger role than it
can perform, in danger of asking it to accomplish tasks that it cannot
achieve, and, as a result, in danger of preventing it from making the
contribution that it is capable of making.
Unaccustomed as I am to denigrating the importance of money, I
therefore shall, as my first task, stress what monetary policy cannot do.
I shall then try to outline what it can do and how it can best make its
contribution, in the present state of our knowledge-or ignorance.
I. What Monetary Policy Cannot Do
From the infinite world of negation, I have selected two limitations
of monetary policy to discuss: (1) It cannot peg interest rates for more
than very limited periods; (2) It cannot peg the rate of unemployment
for more than very limited periods. I select these because the contrary
has been or is widely believed, because they correspond to the two main
unattainable tasks that are at all likely to be assigned to monetary pol-
icy, and because essentially the same theoretical analysis covers both.
Pegging of Interest Rates
History has already persuaded many of you about the first limita-
tion. As noted earlier, the failure of cheap money policies was a major
source of the reaction against simple-minded Keynesianism. In the
United States, this reaction involved widespread recognition that the
wartime and postwar pegging of bond prices was a mistake, that the
abandonment of this policy was a desirable and inevitable step, and
that it hiad none of the disturbing and disastrous consequences that
were so freely predicted at the time.
The li'mitation derives from a much misunderstood feature of the re-
lation between money and interest rates. Let the Fed set out to keep


---Economics-1968-0-08.txt---
interest rates down. How will it try to do so? By buying securities.
This raises their prices and lowers their yields. In the process, it also
increases the quantity of reserves available to banks, hence the amount
of bank credit, and, ultimately the total quantity of money. That
is why central bankers in particular, and the financial community
more broadly, generally believe that an increase in the quantity of
money tends to lower interest rates. Academic economists accept the
same conclusion, but for different reasons. They see, in their mind's
eye, a negatively sloping liquidity preference schedule. How can people
be induced to hold a larger quantity of money? Only by bidding down
interest rates.
Both are right, up to a point. The initial impact of increasing the
quantity of money at a faster rate than it has been increasing is to
make interest rates lower for a time than they would otherwise have
been. But this is only the beginning of the process not the end. The
more rapid rate of monetary growth will stimulate spending, both
through the impact on investment of lower market interest rates and
through the impact on other spending and thereby relative prices of
higher cash balances than are desired. But one man's spending is an-
other man's income. Rising income will raise the liquidity preference
schedule and the demand for loans; it may also raise prices, which
would reduce the real quantity of money. These three effects will
reverse the initial downward pressure on interest rates fairly prompt-
ly, say, in something less than a year. Together they will tend, after
a somewhat longer interval, say, a year or two, to return interest
rates to the level they would otherwise have had. Indeed, given the ten-
dency for the economy to overreact, they are highly likely to raise in-
terest rates temporarily beyond that level, setting in motion a cyclical
adjustment process.
A fourth effect, when and if it becomes operative, will go even far-
ther, and definitely mean that a higher rate of monetary expansion will
correspond to a higher, not lower, level of interest rates than would
otherwise have prevailed. Let the higher rate of monetary growth pro-
duce rising prices, and let the public come to expect that prices will
continue to rise. Borrowers will then be willing to pay and lenders will
then demand higher interest rates-as Irving Fisher pointed out dec-
ades ago. This price expectation effect is slow to develop and also slow
to disappear. Fisher estimated that it took several decades for a full ad-
justment and more recent work is consistent with his estimates.
These subsequent effects explain why every attempt to keep interest
rates at a low level has forced the monetary authority to engage in suc-
cessively larger and larger open market purchases. They explain why,
historically, high and rising nominal interest rates have been associated


---Economics-1968-0-09.txt---
with rapid growth in the quantity of money, as in Brazil or Chile or in
the United States in recent years, and why low and falling interest
rates have been associated with slow growth in the quantity of money,
as in Switzerland now or in the United States from 1929 to 1933. As an
empirical matter, low interest rates are a sign that monetary policy has
been tight-in the sense that the quantity of money has grown slowly;
high interest rates are a sign that monetary policy has been easy-in
the sense that the quantity of money has grown rapidly. The broadest
facts of experience run in precisely the opposite direction from that
which the financial community and academic economists have all gener-
ally taken for granted.
Paradoxically, the monetary authority could assure low nominal rates
of interest-but to do so it would have to start out in what seems like
the opposite direction, by engaging in a deflationary monetary policy.
Similarly, it could assure high nominal interest rates by engaging in an
inflationary policy and accepting a temporary movement in interest
rates in the opposite direction.
These considerations not only explain why monetary policy cannot
peg interest rates; they also explain why interest rates are such a mis-
leading indicator of whether monetary policy is "tight" or "easy." For
that, it is far better to look at the rate of change of the quantity of
money.'
Employment as a Criterion of Policy
The second limitation I wish to discuss goes more against the grain
of current thinking. Monetary growth, it is widely held, will tend to
stimulate employment; monetary contraction, to retard employment.
Why, then, cannot the monetary authority adopt a target for employ-
ment or unemployment-say, 3 per cent unemployment; be tight when
unemployment is less than the target; be easy when unemployment is
higher than the target; and in this way peg unemployment at, say, 3
per cent? The reason it cannot is precisely the same as for interest
rates-the difference between the immediate and the delayed conse-
quences of such a policy.
Tlhanks to Wicksell, we are all acquainted with the concept of a
"natural" rate of interest and the possibility of a discrepancy between
the "natural" and the "market" rate. The preceding analysis of interest
rates can be translated fairly directly into Wickse]lian terms. The mon-
etary authority can make the market rate less than the natural rate
2 This is partly an empirical not theoretical judgment. In principle, "tightness" or "ease"
depends on the rate of change of the quantity of money supplied compared to the rate of  change of the quantity demanded excluding effects on demand from monetary policy itself.  However, empirically demand is highly stable, if we exclude the effect of monetary policy,  so it is generally sufficient to look at supply alone.


---Economics-1968-0-10.txt---
only by inflation. It can mnake the market rate higher than the natural
rate only by deflation. We have added only one wrinkle to Wicksell-
the Irving Fisher distinction between the nominal and the real rate of
interest. Let the monetary authority keep the nominal market rate for a
time below the natural rate by inflation. That in turn will raise the
nominal natural rate itself, once anticipations of inflation become wide-
spread, thus requiring still more rapid inflation to hold down the mar-
ket rate. Similarly, because of the Fisher effect, it will require not
merely deflation but more and more rapid deflation to hold the market
rate above the initial "natural" rate.
This analysis has its close counterpart in the employment market. At
any moment of time, there is some level of unemployment which has
the property that it is consistent with equilibrium in the structure of
real wage rates. At that level of unemployment, real wage rates are
tending on the average to rise at a "normal" secular rate, i.e., at a rate
that can be indefinitely maintained so long as capital formation, tech-
nological improvements, etc., remain on their long-run trends. A lower
level of unemployment is an indication that there is an excess demand
for labor that will produce upward pressure on real wage rates. A
higher level of unemployment is an indication that there is an excess
supply of labor that will produce downward pressure on real wage
rates. The "natural rate of unemployment," in other words, is the level
that would be ground out by the Walrasian system of general equilib-
rium equations, provided there is imbedded in them the actual struc-
tural characteristics of the labor and commodity markets, including
market imperfections, stochastic variability in demands and supplies,
the cost of gathering information about job vacancies and labor avail-
abilities, the costs of mobility, and so on.'
You will recognize the close similarity between this statement and
the celebrated Phillips Curve. The similarity is not coincidental. Phil-
lips' analysis of the relation between unemployment and wage change is
deservedly celebrated as an important and original contribution. But,
unfortunately, it contains a basic defect-the failure to distinguish be-
tween nominal wages and real wages-just as Wicksell's analysis failed
to distinguish between nominal interest rates and real interest rates.
Implicitly, Phillips wrote his article for a world in which everyone an-
ticipated that nominal prices would be stable and in which that antici-
pation remained unshaken and immutable whatever happened to actual
prices and wages. Suppose, by contrast, that everyone anticipates that
prices will rise at a rate of more than 75 per cent a year-as, for exam-
3It is perhaps worth noting that this "natural" rate need not correspond to equality  between the number unemployed and the number of job vacancies. For any given structure  of the labor mnarket, there will be some equilibrium relation between these two magnitudes,  but there is no reason why it should be one of equality.


---Economics-1968-0-11.txt---
ple, Brazilians did a few years ago. Then wages must rise at that rate
simply to keep real wages unchanged. An excess supply of labor will be
reflected in a less rapid rise in nominal wages than in anticipated
prices,4 not in an absolute decline in wages. When Brazil embarked on
a policy to bring down the rate of price rise, and succeeded in bringing
the price rise down to about 45 per cent a year, there was a sharp ini-
tial rise in unemployment because under the influence of earlier antici-
pations, wages kept rising at a pace that was higher than the new rate
of price rise, though lower than earlier. This is the result experienced,
and to be expected, of all attempts to reduce the rate of inflation below
that widely anticipated.5
To avoid misunderstanding, let me emphasize that by using the term
"natural" rate of unemployment, I do not mean to suggest that it is im-
mutable and unchangeable. On the contrary, many of the market char-
acteristics that determine its level are man-made and policy-made. In
the United States, for example, legal minimum wage rates, the Walsh-
Healy and Davis-Bacon Acts, and the strength of labor unions all make
the natural rate of unemployment higher than it would otherwise be.
Improvements in employment exchanges, in availability of information
about job vacancies and labor supply, and so on, would tend to lower
the natural rate of unemployment. I use the term "natural" for the
same reason Wicksell did-to try to separate the real forces from mon-
etary forces.
Let us assume that the monetary authority tries to peg the "market"
rate of unemployment at a level below the "natural" rate. For definite-
ness, suppose that it takes 3 per cent as the target rate and that the
"natural" rate is higher than 3 per cent. Suppose also that we start out
at a time when prices have been stable and when unemployment is
higher than 3 per cent. Accordingly, the authority increases the rate of
monetary growth. This will be expansionary. By making nominal cash
4 Strictly speaking, the rise in nominal wages will be less rapid than the rise in antici-
pated nominal wages to make allowance for any secular changes in real wages.
'Stated in terms of the rate of change of nominal wages, the Phillips Curve can be  expected to be reasonably stable and well defined for any period for which the average  rate of change of prices, and hence the anticipated rate, has been relatively stable. For  such periods, nominal wages and "real" wages move together. Curves computed for differ-  ent periods or different countries for each of which this condition has been satisfied will  differ in level, the level of the curve depending on what the average rate of price change  was. The higher the average rate of price change, the higher will tend to be the level of  the curve. For periods or countries for which the rate of change of prices varies consider-  ably, the Phillips Curve will not be well defined. My impression is that these statements  accord reasonably well with the experience of the economists who have explored empirical
Phillips Curves.
Restate Phillips' analysis in terms of the rate of change of real wages-and even more  precisely, anticipated real wages-and it all falls into place. That is why students of  empirical Phillips Curves have found that it helps to include the rate of change of the  price level as an independent variable.


---Economics-1968-0-12.txt---
balances higher than people desire, it will tend initially to lower interest
rates and in this and other ways to stimulate spending. Income and
spending will start to rise.
To begin with, much or most of the rise in income will take the form
of an increase in output and employment rather than in prices. People
have been expecting prices to be stable, and prices and wages have been
set for some time in the future on that basis. It takes time for people to
adjust to a new state of demand. Producers will tend to react to the
initial expansion in aggregate demand by increasing output, employees
by working longer hours, and the unemployed, by taking jobs now of-
fered at former nominal wages. This much is pretty standard doctrine.
But it describes only the initial effects. Because selling prices of
products typically respond to an unanticipated rise in nominal demand
faster than prices of factors of production, real wages received have
gone down-though real wages anticipated by employees went up, since
employees implicitly evaluated the wages offered at the earlier price
level. Indeed, the simultaneous fall ex post in real wages to employers
and rise ex ante in real wages to employees is what enabled employ-
ment to increase. But the decline ex post in real wages will soon come
to affect anticipations. Employees will start to reckon on rising prices
of the things they buy and to demand higher nominal wages for the fu-
ture. "Market" unemployment is below the "natural" level. There is an
excess demand for labor so real wages will tend to rise toward their ini-
tial level.
Even though the higher rate of monetary growth continues, the rise
in real wages will reverse the decline in unemployment, and then lead
to a rise, which will tend to return unemployment to its former level. In
order to keep unemployment at its target level of 3 per cent, the mone-
tary authority would have to raise monetary growth still more. As in
the interest rate case, the "market" rate can be kept below the "natu-
ral" rate onaly by inflation. And, as in the interest rate case, too, only by
acceleratin(g inflation. Conversely, let the monetary authority choose a
target rate of unemployment that is above the natural rate, and they will
be led to produce a deflation, and an accelerating deflation at that.
What if the monetary authority chose the "natural" rate-either of
interest or unemployment-as its target? One problem is that it cannot
know what the "natural" rate is. Unfortunately, we have as yet de-
vised no method to estimate accurately and readily the natural rate of
either interest or unemployment. And the "natural" rate will itself
change from time to time. But the basic problem is that even if the
monetary authority knew the "natural" rate, and attempted to peg the
market rate at that level, it would not be led to a determinate policy.
The "market" rate will vary from the natural rate for all sorts of rea-
sons other than monetary policy. If the monetary authority responds to


---Economics-1968-0-13.txt---
these variations, it will set in train longer term effects that will make
any monetary growth path it follows ultimately consistent with the rule
of policy. The actual course of monetary growth will be analogous to a
random walk, buffeted this way and that by the forces that produce
temporary departures of the market rate from the natural rate.
To state this conclusion differently, there is always a temporary
trade-off between inflation and unemployment; there is no permanent
trade-off. The temporary trade-off comes not from inflation per se, but
from unanticipated inflation, which generally means, from a rising rate
of inflation. The widespread belief that there is a perma ient trade-off
is a sophisticated version of the confusion between "high" and "rising"
that we all recognize in simpler forms. A rising rate of inflation may
reduce unemployment, a high rate will not.
But how long, you will say, is "temporary"? For interest rates, we
have some systematic evidence on how long each of the several effects
takes to work itself out. For unemployment, we do not. I can at most
venture a personal judgment, based on some examination of the histori-
cal evidence, that the initial effects of a higher and unanticipated rate
of inflation last for something like two to five years; that this initial
effect then begins to be reversed; and that a full adjustment to the new
rate of inflation takes about as long for employment as for interest
rates, say, a couple of decades. For both interest rates and employment,
let me add a qualification. These estimates are for changes in the rate
of inflation of the order of magnitude that has been experienced in the
United States. For much more sizable changes, such as those experi-
enced in South American countries, the whole adjustment process is
greatly speeded up.
To state the general conclusion still differently, the monetary author-
ity controls nominal quantities-directly, the quantity of its own liabil-
ities. In principle, it can use this control to peg a nominal quantity-an
exchange rate, the price level, the nominal level of national income, the
quantity of motney by one or another definition-or to peg the rate of
change in a nominal quantity-the rate of inflation or deflation, the
rate of growth or decline in nominal national income, the rate of growth
of the quantity of money. It cannot use its control over nominal quanti-
ties to peg a real quantity-the real rate of interest, the rate of unem-
ployment, the level of real national income, the real quantity of money,
the rate of growth of real national income, or the rate of growth of the
real quantity of money.
II. What Monetary Policy Can Do
Monetary policy cannot peg these real magnitudes at predetermined
levels. But monetary policy can and does have important effects on
these real magnitudes. The one is in no way inconsistent with the other.


---Economics-1968-0-14.txt---
My own studies of monetary history have made me extremely sym-
pathetic to the oft-quoted, much reviled, and as widely misunderstood,
comment by John Stuart Mill. "There cannot . .. ," he wrote, "be in-
trinsically a more insignificant thing, in the economy of society, than
money; except in the character of a contrivance for sparing time and
labour. It is a machine for doing quickly and commodiously, what
would be done, though less quickly and commodiously, without it: and
like many other kinds of machinery, it only exerts a distinct and inde-
pendent influence of its own when it gets out of order" [7, p. 488].
True, money is only a machine, but it is an extraordinarily efficient
machine. Without it, we could not have begun to attain the astounding
growth in output and level of living we have experienced in the past
two centuries-any more than we could have done so without those
other marvelous machines that dot our countryside and enable us, for
the most part, simply to do more efficiently what could be done without
them at much greater cost in labor.
But money has one feature that these other machines do not share.
Because it is so pervasive, when it gets out of order, it throws a mon-
key wrench into the operation of all the other machines. The Great
Contraction is the most dramatic example but not the only one. Every
other major contraction in this country has been either produced by
monetary disorder or greatly exacerbated by monetary disorder. Every
major inflation has been produced by monetary expansion-mostly to
meet the overriding demands of war which have forced the creation of
money to supplement explicit taxation.
The first and most important lesson that history teaches about what
monetary policy can do-and it is a lesson of the most profound impor-
tance-is that monetary policy can prevent money itself from being a
major source of economic disturbance. This sounds like a negative
proposition: avoid major mistakes. In part it is. The Great Contraction
might not have occurred at all, and if it had, it would have been far less
severe, if the monetary authority had avoided mistakes, or if the mone-
tary arrangements had been those of an earlier time when there was no
central authority with the power to make the kinds of mistakes that the
Federal Reserve System made. The past few years, to come closer to
home, would have been steadier and more productive of economic well-
being if the Federal Reserve had avoided drastic and erratic changes of
direction, first expanding the money supply at an unduly rapid pace,
then, in early 1966, stepping on the brake too hard, then, at the end of
1966, reversing itself and resuming expansion until at least November,
1967, at a more rapid pace than can long be maintained without appre-
ciable inflation.
Even if the proposition that monetary policy can prevent money it-
xs

---Economics-1968-0-15.txt---
self from being a major source of economic disturbance were a wholly
negative proposition, it would be none the less important for that. As it
happens, however, it is not a wholly negative proposition. The mone-
tary machine has gotten out of order even when there has been no cen-
tral authority with anything like the power now possessed by the Fed.
In the United States, the 1907 episode and earlier banking panics are
examples of how the monetary machine can get out of order largely on
its own. There is therefore a positive and important task for the mone-
tary authority-to suggest improvements in the machine that will re-
duce the chances that it will get out of order, and to use its own powers
so as to keep the machine in good working order.
A second thing monetary policy can do is provide a stable back-
ground for the economy-keep the machine well oiled, to continue Mill's
analogy. Accomplishing the first task will contribute to this objective,
but there is more to it than that. Our economic system will work best
when producers and consumers, employers and employees, can proceed
with full confidence that the average level of prices will behave in a
known way in the future-preferably that it will be highly stable.
Under any conceivable institutional arrangements, and certainly under
those that now prevail in the United States, there is only a limited
amount of flexibility in prices and wages. We need to conserve this flexi-
bility to achieve changes in relative prices and wages that are required
to adjust to dynamic changes in tastes and technology. We should not
dissipate it simply to achieve changes in the absolute level of prices
that serve no economic function.
In an earlier era, the gold standard was relied on to provide confi-
dence in future monetary stability. In its heyday it served that function
reasonably well. It clearly no longer does, since there is scarce a coun-
try in the world that is prepared to let the gold standard reign un-
checked-and there are persuasive reasons why countries should not do
so. The monetary authority could operate as a surrogate for the gold
standard, if it pegged exchange rates and did so exclusively by altering
the quantity of money in response to balance of payment flows without
"sterilizing" surpluses or deficits and without resorting to open or con-
cealed exchange control or to changes in tariffs and quotas. But again,
though many central bankers talk this way, few are in fact willing to
follow this course-and again there are persuasive reasons why they
should not do so. Such a policy would submit each country to the va-
garies not of an impersonal and automatic gold standard but of the pol-
icies-deliberate or accidental-of other monetary authorities.
In today's world, if monetary policy is to provide a stable back-
ground for the economy it must do so by deliberately employing its
powers to that end. I shall come later to how it can do so.


---Economics-1968-0-16.txt---
Finally, monetary policy can contribute to offsetting major distur-
bances in the economic system arising fromi other sources. If there is an
independent secular exhilaration-as the postwar expansion was de-
scribed by the proponents of secular stagnation-monetary policy can
in principle help to hold it in check by a slower rate of monetary
growth than would otherwise be desirable. If, as now, an explosive fed-
eral budget threatens unprecedented deficits, monetary policy can hold
any inflationary dangers in check by a slower rate of monetary growth
than would otherwise be desirable. This will temporarily mean higher
interest rates than would otherwise prevail-to enable the government
to borrow the sums needed to finance the deficit-but by preventing the
speeding up of inflation, it may well mean both lower prices and lower
nominal interest rates for the long pull. If the end of a substantial war
offers the country an opportunity to shift resources from wartime to
peacetime production, monetary policy can ease the transition by a
higher rate of monetary growth than would otherwise be desirable-
though experience is not very encouraging that it can do so without
going too far.
I have put this point last, and stated it in qualified terms-as refer-
ring to major disturbances-because I believe that the potentiality of
monetary policy in offsetting other forces making for instability is far
more limited than is commonly believed. We simply do not know
enough to be able to recognize minor disturbances when they occur or
to be able to predict either what their effects will be with any precision
or what monetary policy is required to offset their effects. We do not
know enough to be able to achieve stated objectives by delicate, or even
fairly coarse, changes in the mix of monetary and fiscal policy. In this
area particularly the best is likely to be the enemy of the good. Experi-
ence suggests that the path of wisdom is to use monetary policy explic-
itly to offset other disturbances only when they offer a "clear and pres-
ent danger."
III. How Should Monetary Policy Be Conducted?
How should monetary policy be conducted to make the contribution
to our goals that it is capable of making? This is clearly not the occa-
sion for presenting a detailed "Program for Monetary Stability"-to
use the title of a book in which I tried to do so [3]. I shall restrict
myself here to two major requirements for monetary policy that follow
fairly directly from the preceding discussion.
The first requiremrent is that the monetary authority should guide it-
self by magnitudes that it can control, not by ones that it cannot con-
trol. If, as the authority has often done, it takes interest rates or the
current unemployment percentage as the immediate criterion of policy,


---Economics-1968-0-17.txt---
it will be like a space vehicle that has taken a fix on the wrong star. No
matter how sensitive and sophisticated its guiding apparatus, the space
vehicle will go astray. And so will the monetary authority. Of the var-
ious alternative magnitudes that it can control, the most appealing
guides for policy are exchange rates, the price level as defined by some
index, and the quantity of a monetary total-currency plus adjusted
demand deposits, or this total plus commercial bank time deposits, or a
still broader total.
For the United States in particular, exchange rates are an undesira-
ble guide. It might be worth requiring the bulk of the economy to ad-
just to the tiny percentage consisting of foreign trade if that would
guarantee freedom from monetary irresponsibility-as it might under a
real gold standard. But it is hardly worth doing so simply to adapt to
the average of whatever policies monetary authorities in the rest of the
world adopt. Far better to let the market, through floating exchange
rates, adjust to world conditions the 5 per cent or so of our resources
devoted to international trade while reserving monetary policy to pro-
mote the effective use of the 95 per cent.
Of the three guides listed, the price level is clearly the most impor-
tant in its own right. Other things the same, it would be much the best
of the alternatives-as so many distinguished economists have urged in
the past. But other things are not the same. The link between the pol-
icy actions of the monetary authority and the price level, while unques-
tionably present, is more indirect than the link between the policy ac-
tions of the authority and any of the several monetary totals. More-
over, monetary action takes a longer time to affect the price level than
to affect the monetary totals and both the time lag and the magnitude
of effect vary with circumstances. As a result, we cannot predict at all
accurately just what effect a particular monetary action will have on
the price level and, equally important, just when it will have that effect.
Attempting to control directly the price level is therefore likely to make
monetary policy itself a source of economic disturbance because of
false stops and starts. Perhaps, as our understanding of monetary phe-
nomena advances, the situation will change. But at the present stage of
our understanding, the long way around seems the surer way to our ob-
jective. Accordingly, I believe that a monetary total is the best cur-
rently available immediate guLide or criterion for monetary policy-and
I believe that it matters much less which particular total is chosen than
that one be chosen.
A second requirement for monetary policy is that the monetary au-
thority avoid sharp swings in policy. In the past, monetary authorities
have on occasion moved in the wrong direction-as in the episode of
the Great Contraction that I have stressed. More frequently, they have


---Economics-1968-0-18.txt---
moved in the right direction, albeit often too late, but have erred by
moving too far. Too late and too much has been the general practice.
For example, in early 1966, it was the right policy for the Federal Re-
serve to move in a less expansionary direction-though it should have
done so at least a year earlier. But when it moved, it went too far, pro-
ducing the sharpest change in the rate of monetary growth of the post-
war era. Again, having gone too far, it was the right policy for the Fed
to reverse course at the end of 1966. But again it went too far, not only
restoring but exceeding the earlier excessive rate of monetary growth.
And this episode is no exception. Time and again this has been the
course followed-as in 1919 and 1920, in 1937 and 1938, in 1953 and
1954, in 1959 and 1960.
The reason for the propensity to overreact seems clear: the failure of
monetary authorities to allow for the delay between their actions and
the subsequent effects on the economy. They tend to determine their
actions by today's conditions-but their actions will affect the economy
only six or nine or twelve or fifteen months later. Hence they feel im-
pelled to step on the brake, or the accelerator, as the case may be, too
hard.
My own prescription is still that the monetary authority go all the
way in avoiding such swings by adopting publicly the policy of achiev-
ing a steady rate of growth in a specified monetary total. The precise
rate of growth, like the precise monetary total, is less important than
the adoption of some stated and known rate. I myself have argued for a
rate that would on the average achieve rough stability in the level of
prices of final products, which I have estimated would call for some-
thing like a 3 to 5 per cent per year rate of growth in currency plus all
commercial bank deposits or a slightly lower rate of growth in currency
plus demand deposits only.6 But it would be better to have a fixed rate
that would on the average produce moderate inflation or moderate de-
flation, provided it was steady, than to suffer the wide and erratic per-
turbations we have experienced.
Short of the adoption of such a publicly stated policy of a steady
rate of monetary growth, it would constitute a major improvement if
the monetary authority followed the self-denying ordinance of avoiding
wide swings. It is a matter of record that periods of relative stability in
the rate of monetary growth have also been periods of relative stability
in economic activity, both in the United States and other countries.
Periods of wide swings in the rate of monetary growth have also been
periods of wide swings in economic activity.
a In an as yet unpublished article on "The Optimum Quantity of Money," I conclude
that a still lower rate of growth, something like 2 per cent for the broader definition,
might be better yet in order to eliminate or reduce the difference between private and
total costs of adding to real balances.


---Economics-1968-0-19.txt---
By setting itself a steady course and keeping to it, the monetary au-
thority could make a major contribution to promoting economic stabil-
ity. By making that course one of steady but moderate growth in the
quantity of money, it would make a major contribution to avoidance of
either inflation or deflation of prices. Other forces would still affect the
economy, require change and adjustment, and disturb the even tenor of
our ways. But steady monetary growth would provide a monetary cli-
mate favorable to the effective operation of those basic forces of enter-
prise, ingenuity, invention, hard work, and thrift that are the true
springs of economic growth. That is the most that we can ask from
monetary policy at our present stage of knowledge. But that much-
and it is a great deal-is clearly within our reach.
REFERENCES
1. H. S. ELLIS, ed., A Survey of Contemporary Economics. Philadelphia 1948.
2. MILTON FRIEDMAN, "The Monetary Theory and Policy of Henry Simons,"
Jour. Law and Econ., Oct. 1967, 10, 1-13.
3. , A Program for Monetary Stability. New York 1959.
4. E. A. GOLDENWEISER, "Postwar Problems and Policies," Fed. Res. Bull.,
Feb. 1945, 31, 112-21.
5. P. T. HOMAN AND FRITZ MACHLUP, ed., Financing American Prosperity.
New York 1945.
6. A. P. LERNER AND F. D. GRAHAM, ed., Planning and Paying for Full Em-
ployment. Princeton 1946.
7. J. S. MILL, Principles of Political Economy, Bk. III, Ashley ed. New York
1929.