
# E3
 ## Economics-1907-0


### ---Economics-1907-0-01.txt---
found to-day among business men in their dealings with
one another and with the public, I wish to make it clear
at the outset that my purpose, primarily, is not to defend
nor to condemn either men or practices, but, as best I can,
to understand. Furthermore, it is not necessary for my
purpose to raise the question of the philosophic basis of
morals. Interesting as that question always is, its discussion
is profitless from the viewpoint of practical civic
improvement.

In spite of the pessimistic tone of many of our popular
writers, it is certain that, in most fields of endeavor,
society is improving in its methods and in its purposes.
Why not in business methods and business aims? At
no other time in the world's history has there been so
kind and intelligent a treatment of the poor and the defective;
at no other time have men been so humane in
their treatment of animals and in their dealings with their
fellowmen in the event of war or of great misfortune; at
no other time have deeds of courtesy and acts of mercy
been so numerous as now. The fact that within the last
few years so many influential business men, not only in
the United States, but also in other countries, have engaged


### ---Economics-1907-0-02.txt---
in operations that have shocked the sense of justice
and honor and fair-dealing, seems out of harmony with
the general trend of social events. It was certainly not
to be expected that men who seem entirely conscientious
in all their dealings, public and private, men who apparently
in all private relations lead exemplary lives, men
who have won universal respect, should suddenly in their
business be found engaged in acts illegal and dishonorable.
JIn explanation there seems only one alternative:
either our standard of business integrity has changed; or
we have found difficulty in applying our former standards
to modern conditions.

Doubtless within the last decade in business positions
of importance weak men have been found who have
yielded to temptation. But many acts condemned by
public opinion have been committed by men who are not
weak and who apparently have had no sense of guilt.
The fact that there are weak or wicked men in business,
while true, is not sufficient as an explanation.
We are all creatures of custom; we generally drift
under the inertia of habit in thought as well as in action.
In consequence, changes in social or business conditions
take us unawares; we need time to readjust ourselves.
Meanwhile we do foolish and wrong things. The old ways
do not fit the new surroundings. Consider, for example,
the blind despair of the cotton weavers in England, when,
early in the last century, the power loom displaced the
hand loom, and thousands were thrown out of employment.
They did not understand; they could not foresee
the inevitable; and, in their foolish rage, they smashed
the machines. But they were no more foolish than are
many men of the present day who hope and expect to see
the business of railways and gas companies, natural monopolies,
regulated by competition. This mental or social


### ---Economics-1907-0-03.txt---
inertia, which prevents us at times from seeing the meaning
of social conditions, has, to be sure, a conservative
power that is often beneficial; but it has also its evil side,
and it affords a partial explanation of many acts which
we are inclined to condemn as wrong. This is a social
fact never to be ignored. How does it fit our problem?
What are the new conditions of business which may
affect our standards of honor? Four characteristics of
modern business have an important bearing upon this
problem:

i) Business is done on a vastly larger scale than ever
before.

2) The modern business man does not come into personal
contact with his workingmen, his customers, or the
consumers of his products, as did his predecessor of half
a century ago.

3) The directors and officers of our great corporations
are now trustees for thousands of stockholders;
earlier the corporations did not exist, and there was no
such trusteeship.

4) Large profits from monopolies that are legal,
but sometimes economically and socially unjustifiable,
are more frequent now than earlier.

These facts demand thoughtful consideration. When
two or three grocers or butchers in a country village formally,
or informally, agree to maintain prices, the transaction
is not materially different in nature from that of an
agreement between different members of a beef-trust, or
from the so-called "gentlemen's agreement" to maintain
rates on our railways. But, in the first instance, while
a few customers have their private opinions about the
meanness of their neighbors and fellow-church-members,
no one feels that a serious wrong has been committed,
altho in that locality a monopoly has been produced;


### ---Economics-1907-0-04.txt---
whereas in the case of the Trust, properly enough, there
is world-wide condemnation. Are the cases different in
nature or only in degree? In the one, a village is the
victim of monopoly; in the other, a nation. In the one
case, the monopolist is a petty tyrant to be despised; in
the other, a monster to be feared. Such different effects
are produced on our feelings merely by an increase in
the scale of operations.

Results no less striking are produced by lack of personal
association. Dr. George P. Watkins, in a paper
as yet unpublished, has properly laid great emphasis upon
the well-known fact that the wealth of the rich is held
to-day so largely in the form of stocks and bonds that the
owner has little personal touch either with the property
which his securities represent or with its management.
He knows that he has so many thousands or hundreds
of thousands of dollars invested in this railway
or that corporation, but so long as he draws his
dividends promptly, he is often content not to know
more. Until the middle of the last century the situation
was vastly different. The wealthy man managed
his wealth himself; he saw with his own eyes
the work, the home-life, the personal conditions of his
workmen. As a merchant or as a manufacturer, he dealt
personally with his customers and price-fixing might well
be a matter of personal discussion. The transaction often
assumed the nature of gift or favor, on the one side; on
the other, that of personal appeal. When dealings are
on a small scale, discriminations between persons are
often not only not injurious to society, they are highly
commendable. When, however, the articles purchased
or the services bought are not for immediate consumption
but for further production; when the effect of the
discrimination, instead of ending with the personal benefit


### ---Economics-1907-0-05.txt---
of one individual or of a small group of individuals,
involves the wealth or ruin of rival establishments employing
thousands of laborers, the discrimination becomes
a public danger. The driver of a stagecoach
may if he will, give a lift to a weary traveler
or to a personal friend. When the local magnate
whose freight is half of all the freight hauled
by the coach asks a favor, it will be granted; and few
people are harmed thereby. When, however, a railroad
corporation, bullied by threats of injury to business,
grants a favor to a great manufacturer, this favor may
mean a monopoly that will take millions from the people.
(We may properly note as a fact that rebates by railroad
companies or special favors by the manager of a great
corporation have, relatively speaking, been very rarely
given to personal friends for personal reasons, tho personal
favors were common in the small transactions of
an earlier generation; but rebates have often been extorted
by great establishments, and often freely granted
by railroads to secure large shipments.) But in any
event, while we should all approve the generous action of
the stage-driver, we all, rightly, condemn the railroad.
The railroad is a common carrier, a creature of the public.
It is, however, easy to see that a business man, whether
cordial and kindly or eager and grasping, when working
for the extension of his trade, may not take time to follow
thru all their intricacies, the manifold baleful effects
of his acts of discrimination. He sees his own benefit;
he overlooks the public injury.

And this principle is everywhere active.. It is alive
in our human nature. The removal from personal contact
with their laborers, with their customers, and with
the consumers of their products, takes from business men
the sense of the cruelty and meanness which their acts


### ---Economics-1907-0-06.txt---
would sometime be seen to have, if the consequences
were immediate and personal. Nearness, personal touch,
is an active force. Many a ruler has signed the deathwarrant
of a criminal whom he has never seen, an account
of whose guilt he has been willing to take from others
with little investigation, when he would have hesitated
long 4nd investigated much more thoroly, had he been
compelled himself to be the hangman. Many a ruler,
who, in upholding the so-called honor of his country or
of his dynasty, has sent thousands of men to torture and
death, would have found other ways of satisfying the
demands of honor, or might even have revised his views
of the nature of honor, had he been compelled himself
to lead his columns into battle, himself to see the carnage,
or to take the risk of personal suffering. In similar ways
our great business leaders, who are kindly in personal
disposition, who take warm delight in relieving suffering,
whose word in business transactions is as good as a bond,
whose private life is touched by no breath of scandal,
will, at times, with comparatively little investigation, because
the books show a falling off in profits, order a cutting
of wages, or a slaughter of prices, or a raid on the
market. In taking these precautionary or profitable
measures, they feel that they are doing praiseworthy acts,
and have little or no thought of the sacrifice of public interest
thereby entailed, or of the thousands of people to
whom they may bring suffering.

Again, the director of a great corporation, or its manager,
feels it his first interest and his most obvious duty
to care for the welfare of the stockholders for whom he
is trustee. The fact that he is himself a stockholder
merely stiffens this mental attitude. The fact that his
own position is dependent upon his so managing the business
as to secure good dividends for his stockholders,


### ---Economics-1907-0-07.txt---
sometimes consciously, sometimes unconsciously, tends
to blind his eyes to the social results of many of his acts.
When, then, the question comes to a director, or to the
president of a corporation, whether he shall observe the
law, (which may even, at times, seem to him unjust), at the
expense of sacrificing the dividends of thousands of stockholders
for whom he is a trustee, and perhaps incidentally
of sacrificing his own position if he fails to earn these
dividends, even tho he knows that the violation of the
law may injure some people to him personally unknown,
it is natural that he should feel the pressure of his
trusteeship for his stockholders more strongly than the
pressure of his trusteeship for the public. He does
wrong. I am not excusing him. I am trying to understand
him; to see how a man who is upright and honorable
in most matters does wrong in business.

I have had important shippers say to me that they not
merely disliked to receive rebates contrary to law, but
that they would use their every effort to secure a law which
would prevent the granting and the acceptance of rebates.
But when, from current prices, they saw that one of their
rivals was receiving a certain rebate, and that unless they
secured a like concession, they would be forced out of
business, was it to be expected that they would hesitate?
Without the rebate, the interests of their stockholders
and their own personal interests would be sacrificed.
With it, tho contrary to law, they and their rivals would
be placed on an equal footing. Their interests enable
them to see their stockholders near at hand; the public
seems dim in the distance. Let us try to be fair. It may
be that we are partly to blame. If our laws are unjust,
we must share the guilt.

The manager of the great corporation may often give
other reasons for his acts that sound very interesting.


### ---Economics-1907-0-08.txt---
With the welfare of many thousands of stockholders in
his hands, he says, he finds himself situated in many respects
as is the ruler of a small state, entrusted with the
welfare of his people. But it has been held by many
writers, to say nothing of practical statesmen, that instances
not seldom occur where a ruler must sacrifice the
ordinary principles of morals as applied to private life,
in order, to follow what he considers the "higher law" of
caring for the welfare of his people. Ought we to do
evil, from the private viewpoint, to secure the public
good? This question of political ethics is touched later.
But, to make clear the point, I may perhaps venture to
quote from one of the great writers on politics and morals,
Gustav Ruemelin, late Chancellor of the University
of Tfibingen, a few words which seem to be approved by
one of our own late distinguished publicists, Frederick
W. Holls:

"A man,". he says, "should be magnanimous and generous
only at his own expense, not at the expense of
others. Wherever force is permissible strategy cannot
be debarred. Where it is allowable to take life [as for
example in war] it cannot be improper merely to deceive,
and in case the same result could be obtained by either
method, deception is preferable, as being the more
humane and indulgent....

.... It would be folly in war for one of the combatants
to renounce the right to make use of spies among
the subjects of the hostile state by means of corruption.
The conditions in which the higher interests of a state or
a nation are at stake transcend ordinary rules and principles,
and they upon whom supreme responsibility rests
can hardly afford to be impeded by the threads of casuistry.
"

And - again: "How can the golden rule be applied


### ---Economics-1907-0-09.txt---
to the relation of one state to another? None of the
ties which bind man to man can join state to state.
The command 'Love thy neighbor as thyself,' cannot be
applied here. The state is so far from turning the left
cheek to him who strikes the right, that on the contrary,
it does and must endeavor to anticipate even a threatened
blow with an energetic counter-stroke... In short, the
entire chapter of the duties of love, which is the chief
doctrine of the moral law, has no application to the conduct
of the state. A nation depends, not upon the love
of others, but upon the love of self, upon the fostering
and development of its own power and prosperity; and
if we characterize this by the term 'egoism,' -a term indeed
that is scarcely applicable-then egoism certainly is
the foundation of all politics."

In short, this political standard of morality, so often
advocated by statesmen, says practically: Rulers as trustees
for their fellow-citizens cannot follow in all regards
the standards of private morality. It is their duty as
trustees, at all hazards, first to preserve the existence of
their state, and, secondly, to secure its prosperity, as they
see its prosperity. Naturally, also, their willingness to
guard this prosperity is increased by the fact that they as
rulers will gain thru the strengthening of their state.
From this principle thus stated, baldly, and with unpleasant
frankness, is derived the principle in accordance
with which a ruler claims the right and feels the duty to
summon his fellow-citizens to sacrifice their lives for the
advancement of the state; from which he feels called
upon, in case of their refusal, to compel them against
their will to go to war and die for the existence, and often
for merely the greater prosperity, of the state. And as
he defends himself for these public acts (which otherwise
would be murder) on the ground of supporting the


### ---Economics-1907-0-10.txt---
national honor or the national life, so he defends himself
for the commission of other acts less heinous than murder
in private morals, such as deception, bribery, obtaining
property under false pretenses, robbery. If it is
right for nations to fight for their national existence or
for their national honor, it is surely right, he urges, for
them f5o secure information regarding the strongholds,
or the military or naval equipment of the states with
which they may be brought into conflict, by bribing their
officers. If it is right in time of war to seize the territory
of the enemy and keep it (a kind of highway robbery)
in order to have a better defense thereafter
for the home territory, it is surely right to obtain
the same territory for similar purposes by wilfully
creating a misunderstanding about a boundary line and
insisting upon it. Acts such as these I am not defending;
but they are, as a matter of fact, condoned when committed
by statesmen. in many cases they are even looked
upon as praiseworthy.

Without judging these questions now, note the applicability
of these principles to modern business life. When
a great corporation magnate feels himself a trustee for
the interests of his thousands- of stockholders, in some
instances more numerous than the citizens of some of the
smaller states, he finds himself tempted to business acts
which he would reject without hesitation in his private
capacity. The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New
York, for example, has some 6ooooo policy-holders
whose interests doubtless touch closely not less than
3,000,000 people, i. e., more than the population of Denmark.
As heads of political parties, men conscientious
in their private relations, have often not hesitated
to bribe and to use all kinds of -deceit to win
an election, and have excused their acts on the


### ---Economics-1907-0-11.txt---
ground that their opponents are doing the same, and
that the welfare of the state depends upon the success
of their party; so the manager of a corporation,
knowing well that his rivals are violating the law
by accepting rebates, or evading the contract labor law,
or the laws regarding the labor of women and children,
and that if he does not do the same, he must go out of
business, sacrificing thereby the interests of his stockholders,
feels called upon by his sense of responsibility,
misguided perhaps, but none the less real, to do likewise.
Men of irreproachable private life, good husbands and
fathers, Christian gentlemen in their private acts, will at
times send spies to discover the secrets of their rivals in
business, will bribe the employees of their competitors to
disclose the secrets of their employers, will take every
means possible to secure an advantage which in a private
game they would consider unsportsmanlike and mean;
and they will justify themselves to their own consciences
for these acts. When the president of an insurance
company contributed to the campaign fund of a political
party, the success of whose principles he felt would insure
the welfare of his stockholders, he did not feel that he
was stealing from his stockholders; he was using their
money, he thought, as much to protect and preserve their
interests as if he were hiring a policeman or paying for
the services of an expert adviser. A man in such a position
has felt that he must protect the welfare of his company,
and that to him means, usually, to pay the largest
dividends possible. Like the ruler of the state, in many
cases he commits these acts with the greater zeal, altho
sometimes concealing the real motive even from himself,
because an increase in dividends makes his own position
more secure and often increases his own salary. He is
wrong; he has forgotten the still great( interest of the


### ---Economics-1907-0-12.txt---
public. Our eyes now are open; but how many of us
two years ago would have seen clearly if we had been
given the same problem to solve?

The temptation has been more subtle, too, from the
fact that in very many instances fortunes have been made
thru the legal right to enjoy an unearned increment of
profit, whether of rent or monopoly, which tho legally
justified has been economically and socially unjustifiable.
Do not misunderstand me. Tho I find fault with some
of our laws, I am not denouncing our present organization
of society, nor talking about any "natural right,"
nor advocating any sweeping revolutionary measure of
reform. Genuine reforms cannot come that way. Few
customs are altogether wrong. Social wrongs are seldom
suddenly righted. Human nature is not readily
changed. And few business or political principles are
universally applicable. Let us note some examples.
Probably no saner or wiser or juster policy on the
whole was ever adopted by any people than that by which
our country under our homestead laws gave to our frontier
settlers the unearned increment of rent of land-the
policy which has made our central west the granary of
nations, its people perhaps the most prosperous of the
world. But this striking example does not argue that
land-rent should always under all circumstances go untouched
to a private owner; nor that land laws which
work injustice should not be changed. I am not discussing,
for example, absentee landlordism.

Again while private monopolies, copyrights and patents,
and even private ownership of natural monopolies
like gas plants and street-railroads may often be wise and
just, it is still on the other hand clear that very many of
our gifts of franchise of monopolies and many of our
laws which have encouraged monopoly, while constitutional,


### ---Economics-1907-0-13.txt---
have been economically unjustifiable. In fact, they
have been at times productive of manifold political and
social evils. The making of great fortunes, legally, but
in ways felt to be unjust, has in many instances tended
strongly to obscure the moral vision of well-meaning men,
whose weakness has led them gladly to confound legality
with social righteousness. And their acts, again, have
formed the excuse for others to break a law that was
really working injustice.

A profit thru an unjust, tho technically legal, stockwatering
scheme may well prove far more demoralizing
in business circles than an illegal rebate which saves
from ruin a grain-shipper caught at a disadvantage.
But let us not be unjust. These evil practices, these
excuses for wrong-doing, are not confined to our great
capitalists. Even the excuse of trusteeship is not confined
to the managers of the great capitalistic corporations.
It permeates our business life. The same sentiment
is felt by the heads of the great labor organizations.
Like the glow of patriotic loyalty which
leads citizens to sacrifice on the battlefield their own
interests and those of his families and friends
for the honor of their country, the unselfish feeling of
members of trade-unions often leads them heroically to
undergo bitter privation for themselves and for their
families in order to further the welfare of their organization
or of their class in society. But they, too, often go
too far. How often in the appeals of labor leaders we
hear the metaphors of war. They are "battling for the
rights of the toiling masses !" How often we find them
ready to adopt the methods of warfare; to resort to deception,
and even at times to violence. It is hardly too
much to say that, generally speaking, the argument of the
labor leaders against violence in support of their demands


### ---Economics-1907-0-14.txt---
is not that violence under the circumstances would be unjustifiable
on moral grounds, but that it would be unjustifiable
on practical grounds: i. e., it would change the
public sentiment in favor of their employers and would
be likely to make them lose instead of win their fight.
And we all of us in all business relations are very
likely to employ similar methods in a small way. Look
thru the hundreds of columns of advertising in our daily
press and in our magazines.' Everywhere exaggeration
of excellencies, concealment of defects. Seldom
bare, simple truth. Shall we conclude, then, that most
of us have a share in the guilt of our unscrupulous business
magnates ? Is it not clear that the evils have
sprung, not from any real lowering of moral tone,
but from the same age-long mental and moral inertia
which ever leads us into new conditions before we
are ready to readjust old ways of thinking; from
our primitive selfishness which likes to yield to temptation;
and from the naive readiness of our humanity
to find excuses to please our consciences? We are
not worse than were our fathers; we have had the benefit
of enjoying some new temptations before our consciences
have been primed with clearness of economic insight.
Can we find any remedy?

First we must try to see clearly what is the right standdard
of business honor. The aim of the state, i. e., of


### ---Economics-1907-0-15.txt---
society organized for positive action, is to secure for its
citizens not merely life, but abundant life of the highest
type: economic prosperity with moral excellence. It is
for the government to see, and it is for us citizens in a
popular form of government to see, how this can be best
secured; and we must consider not only the distant ideals
toward which we are pressing but we must recognize
with clear eyes and patient heart the weaknesses of
human nature and the conditions which place barriers in
our pathway. Then only we must act.

It is, then, the duty of the state (that is, it is our duty,
for we in our organized capacity are the state)-it is our
duty so far as possible to make the conditions such that
human nature will not be tempted beyond its strength;
but such that thru its struggles it shall gain a new
strength for better and higher work and for the better
and higher life; and that we, individuals, corporations,
and states, shall be able in these conditions so to act that,
in business as in politics, our ideals on questions of morals
and honor may be carried out, as fast as possible, even if
slowly.

The duty, then, is imposed upon the government, upon
us, of changing the conditions of business, so that the
ethical standards of our private life may be more
promptly extended to our ever-changing business life.
The state, for example, must in actual practice forbid the
use by business men of any means which are injurious to
the public interest, such as the building of unsanitary
factories, the unprotected use of dangerous machinery,
the employment of child labor or of laborers under any
conditions or by any methods that the more conscientious,
more merciful employers would not tolerate if they were
not compelled to do so by the competition of their more
unscrupulous rivals. It must cut off the possibility of


### ---Economics-1907-0-16.txt---
special favors to the strong; it must search out and prevent
dishonest practices of those whose wealth comes not
from service but from plunder and fraud, whether legal
or illegal.

Second, it is the duty of all of us to recognize that in
business as well as in politics the laborer is worthy of his
hire. Each of us should feel that our work is primarily
for the service of society; but we should also feel that
when others are rendering a service to us or to society,
they should receive the just reward of that service. Thru
their weakness and thru our selfishness, thru unenlightened
self-interest, (not enlightened self-interest, for
enlightened self-interest takes into view a nobler
society), we have often tempted people into dishonest
practices by holding them down. to unjustly low rewards,
by trying always to buy in the cheapest, not in
the fairest, market. The Consumers' League is
doing a little to combat this tendency, but the bargain
counter is still ahead, in high places as in low.
The demand, public or private, that a man whose services
are actually worth $50,ooo a year shall receive only
$ ,o0o, is as wrong economically and morally as that a
skilled wage-earner shall receive only a pittance to keep
him from starvation. The main difference is that the
strong man is more likely to take indirectly and wrongly
the $50,000 which he feels. he has earned. Under our
competitive system of industry, we as individuals should
be glad to give the largest profit to him who either renders
to society the best service of all the competitors, or
by masterly and just organization of his business can
render equal service with less expenditure of industrial
energy. We should discriminate between fortunes gained
by real service and those gained unjustly by gambling
speculation or oppressive monopoly. We should be willing


### ---Economics-1907-0-17.txt---
to give the largest profit, however large it might be,
to the competitor to whom it is rightly due, because he
has earned it by service. We should not join in the denunciation
of the wealthy simply because they are

wealthy, nor on the other hand object to fair wages because
they are fairly high. We should denounce only
the unjust. It would then be much easier than it is now
to exclude cheating, misrepresentation, adulteration.
Third, The beneficial result of honesty, good laws and
good service can best be secured by publicity. This must
be attained in part by the sanction of the state, in part by
the education of public sentiment. The chief reason
why, under present circumstances, it is necessary to have
business secrets is that the buying public is not willing to
give the higher profit to the man who renders the better
social service and carries on his business with a view to
the real interests of his workmen and of the public. We
assume, generally speaking, that the manufacturer is
asking too high a price, and we are all of us looking for
bargains. When we are willing to pay adequately for
actual service rendered, men can much more easily do
business under the public eye.

INo one realizes better than I do how difficult it will
be to bring about this result. And yet it is certain that
we have already in our society taken many steps in this
direction, and that part of the present outcry against the
abuses of corporations has come just because the public
is so much better trained in this direction, and because we
are more sensitive to justice now than ever before.
Even when these things are done, we may scarcely expect
that there is to be an immediate revolution in moral
ideals or in business practice. We may not hope that by
exposures of corruption, however flagrant, public sentiment
can be quickly changed; that, by act of legislature,


### ---Economics-1907-0-18.txt---
reforms can be quickly brought about; or that by the mere
election of an honest, clean-minded Governor or President,
honesty and honor will at once permeate the public
service and change the tenor of private business. But
we do know that already something has been accomplished
in all these directions, and we think, that by a careful
analysis of the conditions and a steadfast effort on
the part of the thinkers of society, a higher standard of
honor in business as well as in politics can probably be
steadily and surely, tho slowly, approached.
But we must not overlook the political problem: If our
assumption has been true that the apparent lowering of
the standard of business honor in late years has been due
in some degree to the normal shifting of the attitude of
the manager of a great corporation, who feels himself a
trustee for his stockholders, to the attitude of the ruler of
a state, we need, before our study is complete, to judge
the ethical standard of the political ruler. While from
the days of Machiavelli, and, later, of the anti-Machiavel
rulers, students of political science have, with perhaps
equal conscientiousness, differed on the question of the
attitude of rulers in the appreciation of moral principles to
public questions, no one who has observed the trend of
modern history can doubt that both the weight of public
opinion and the practice of governments are steadily uplifting
the ethical standards of rulers toward the ethical
standards of private persons, as idealised in the precepts
and life of the Founder of Christianity. When we realize
that all of us, even in this advanced age, are controlled by
custom in dress, social entertainment, business, politics,
religion; that in many communities the man who eats
with his knife is far more certainly ostracized than the
guilty party in a divorce suit, or the man who gains
wealth by wrecking railroads on the stock exchange, we


### ---Economics-1907-0-19.txt---
need not blame rulers, who, in earlier days, confused
diplomacy and deceit, might and right. They, too, were
merely following custom. But in these days, with the
public opinion of the great nations of the world upholding
the ideals of justice and courtesy, it is far more easily
possible for the ruler of a state to secure its safety and
prosperity, by resting upon the principles of international
law, supported and enforced by the judgment of the
civilized Christian nations. It is coming to be the fact
that it pays a ruler and a state to be just and fair, and to
tell the truth. Among nations as among business men,
in the long run, if the sentiments of individuals are right,
good morals pay. We have every reason to believe that
this tendency also will steadily develop, until not merely
the public, but also the private acts of rulers will be subject
to tests even more rigid than those applied to private
persons in their private capacities.

In this sphere also, as well as in that of business, the
ultimate forces at work are those of human intercourse,
economic, political, social, often working unconsciously,
and public opinion, whose power strengthens as it becomes
conscious. The only way in which we can hasten the
wished-for result (and we must not neglect our task) is
by educating the people-our masters-by giving to them
the right ideals. It must eventually be fully recognized,
as it is beginning to be recognized, that the
greatest service a state can render to itself as well
as to the world, consists, not in warfare, not in extension
of territory, not in hostile rivalry, not in overreaching
foreign countries in dealings with them, but iii
the prosperity which comes from ever more closely linked
intercourse in times of peace; by this intercourse, while
receiving benefit from other countries, each state in return
will render service to them.


### ---Economics-1907-0-20.txt---
I am not advocating a so-called weak foreign policy:
quite the contrary. To be just and honest and truthful, a
ruler need not be blind to the faults of others nor afraid to
stand for the rights of his people. Indeed, he must demand
right as well as do right. But he must look to
ultimate good in the highest moral welfare of his people
and not merely to the glitter of the business profit of today.
The reputation for honesty and truthfulness, too,
will give any statesman a decided advantage in negotiation.
Consider the reputation and success of Secretary
John Hay in his later years. As in the case of private
business, the greatest reward should come for the greatest
service, so, as each country in peace contributes to the
welfare of others, it will receive-as it should receivethe
returns that will be most beneficial.

It is easy to see that the public moral sentiment of the
world is already aroused. And we have every reason to
believe that in the sphere of politics, as well as in that of
business, we shall see an ever-accelerating progress. In
the future, our great business men will not be able to
shelter themselves behind the defense of the statesman,
and claim that the "higher good" impels them to do deeds
that are evil in private life. The issue ultimately depends
upon us. We, the individuals who compose the state,
must shoulder the responsibility. If we make felt, thru
the state and thru public sentiment, our determination to
do right and justice in national affairs and in private
business, and define right and justice in terms of service,
not of selfishness, neither statesmen nor business men will
refuse to yield. It is right for us to find fault with our
politicians and our business men. They have deserved
it; but we should also find fault with ourselves. Their
crimes and cruelties are no more ignoble than are our
petty deceits and meannesses, our selfishness and concealments,


### ---Economics-1907-0-21.txt---
our search for bargains, our eagerness to get on.
It is a cheering fact that we are now seeing the evils in
politics and in business. Our eyes were dim to new
abuses. The misdeeds had to be on a grand scale to attract
our attention. But now we see them; and seeing
them clearly, we shall soon see farther. Ultimately we
poorer, common people in private life will see our own
faults. Then progress will be faster. There is still
much more to do for each of us, in seeing more clearly
the application of the simple, old-fashioned principles of
private honesty to the great transactions of corporate
business and to the still greater problems of statesmanship.


Some years ago, one of my ablest and best-liked colleagues
took me to task because in writing about the
Trusts I had, while trying to point out the evils, noted
some good in them. "But did I not show the bad, and
was not the good true?", I asked. "Yes," he replied in
substance, "I don't deny that; but we want to get the people
to act in correction of abuses; and the people will not
act unless their feelings are aroused. We lull them into
inaction by balancing good and evil; let us show the evils,
the Trusts themselves will show the good." Highly as
I regard my friend, and noble as I know his motives to
be, that seems to me pernicious doctrine. It has in it
the seeds of revolution, not of progress. In social evolution,
the race is rarely to the swift, but always to the
safe and sure, and nothing less than transparent honesty
is safe. Underlying all our social structure is our standard
of business honor with the right application of that
standard to our complex social conditions. This can be
secured only by showing to our people not merely truth
about business, but the whole truth. We must fix our
standard; we must gradually approach it.


### ---Economics-1907-0-22.txt---
Heretofore our business standard has really been: "the
greatest possible reward for self in return for the least
service." When we once see ourselves clearly in our
social relations, in business and in politics, we shall see
that the fitter standard is: "the greatest service possible
for a just reward."

It imay seem a "lame and impotent conclusion" that
there is no legislative panacea for our business ills, but
that upon us as individuals rests largely the responsibility
for our social improvement. Clear-sighted and impartial
observation of facts, including human nature, is our only
safe guide in social reforms; our only methods must be
the commonplace ones of preventing abuses and securing
justice in specific cases by legislation and judicial action
and by compelling men to work in the open-not some
inclusive scheme of social reorganization. We must
content ourselves with this conclusion. Its justification
is our complex human nature and the experience of the
ages.
 ## Economics-1908-0


### ---Economics-1908-0-01.txt---
economists since this association was founded. So popular has
economic thinking become, so prominent is its position in all
colleges and universities, so numerous are the books, articles and
journals devoted to its discussion, that it seems a natural state of
affairs that must always have existed. And yet all this is the
work of a group of enthusiasts, meeting at Saratoga 23 years ago
without a single book to their credit, without journal to voice
their views and without university position to give them support.
Today economics is in everyone's thought and on everyone's
lips. We do not lack students; we do not lack organs or audience;
nor do we lack zeal for the further prosecution of the work already
begun. So much we can fairly claim and all honor to those who
have taken part in the work. If this were our only goal we
might be proudly satisfied with our record and pass on the Association
to our successors with a consciousness of a life's work well
done.

There is, however, no great American problem that has been
solved. With every vital question we stand on a half-way ground,
halting between the old and the new, and if these half truths are
all we have to offer we may harm the public more than we aid
them. Confusion and defeat stare us in the face politically,
morally and economically, if the disappearance of old customs,
traditions and modes of thought is not followed by the rise of new
concepts, ideals and institutions. We cannot afford to be mere
iconoclasts. We must lay the foundation of a new civilization
and show how economic forces will remedy evils that may soon
be unbearable. We have thus a problem-a difficult problem to
master. Are we mastering it or merely drifting with the tide?


### ---Economics-1908-0-02.txt---
If it is hard to divide the centuries into epochs it is still more
difficult to distinguish between parts of a period of twenty years
and yet there is enough difference between the first and second
halves of this period to give them a distinct character. The best
method of illustrating this difference is to examine the change
in our periodical literature. Twenty years ago the dominant
element was thought and theory, while at present description and
illustration have the first place. The theoretic discussions we
now have are by persons who earned their reputations in the
first epoch. The younger generation of economists have evidently
been turned in other directions. The same tendencies are manifest
in doctors' theses. I recall many young men who gained
standing by an essay of not more than thirty pages. They won
recognition by clear thought and a sharply defined thesis. Today
they launch forth in a three hundred page pamphlet that
tires the reader with its massive collection of facts; and the
making of books is going the same road. No one seems willing
to stop short of the German standard by which prestige is gained
through bulky volumes that fill yards of library shelves.
The young doctor with a three hundred page pamphlet to his
credit has worked harder than his predecessor but he has pushed
forward neither the science nor the nation. The writers in journals
state the current problems of the economic world with great clearness
but they leave us muddled as to their solution. And bookmaking
has become an art of collection and restatement that
substitutes clippings and card catalogues for clear thought. Once
when I complained to a fellow writer of the difficulties of bookmaking
he volunteered to show me his method which was to
employ a clipping bureau to send him extracts from papers and
periodicals falling under each of the heads of his book. When
he wrote a chapter he read over these clippings and thus the book
came into being almost of itself. Another writer took a shorthand
reporter with him when he interviewed people familiar with
a selected topic and from this material created an acceptable
book. A more familiar illustration is that of college debaters.
A series of questions is a drag-net that will bring in the best of
the current thought and the questioner can be reasonably sure
to get what he wants with little work on his part.


### ---Economics-1908-0-03.txt---
There are writers whose work deserves commendation and yet
the art of popularizing is so prominent that the fuller view of the
earlier epoch is lost sight of in the struggle for immediate results.
A theoretic writer can no longer gain through his work the commanding
place that would have been given him even a dozen years
ago. Not only has he in this way lost prestige but his work is more
impersonal than it was, so much more so in fact, that he scarcely
ever derives personal advantage from it. The popular speaker
and writer are quoted everywhere and thus gain a name on which
position and income depend. The theorist however finds few
readers and his contrasts when fresh and striking are appropriated
by popular writers without credit. A man who worked for years
on an important topic finally brought out a book that set off his
thought by a brilliant contrast that really contained its essence.
When this was first used by an editorial writer he gave full credit.
Soon editorials by the score appeared in other papers whichgave
the new thought and expounded it by means of the new contrast
but no credit was'given to its author. These writers had apparently
read the first editorial but not the book and cared more for making
an impression than for justice.

In one way the author should be greatly pleased since the end
for which he worked was so easily attained. But in so far as a
personal element was a motive he gained less than if he had been
the author of one of the editorials based on his book. Books
now drop out of sight in a few months; often they are dead before
the reviews of them begin to appear. But their contrasts and
telling phrases live on and are pushed over into the popular
consciousness in a thousand indirect ways that make them effective
and often as immortal as they are impersonal. To-day the
popularizer is so close on the track of the thinker that his book
is made a part of literature before it is dry from the press. To
think clearly is to be altruistic. Honors and rewards come only to
those who by pen or speech pass along to the public the books
and essays it will not read. And the professor, like the writer
and speaker, gets his promotions by what he appropriates. Economists
are not free from tendencies that dominate elsewhere.
And hence it is that each year we pay less attention to clear
thought and more to its expression.

Such considerations warn us of the difficulties economists


### ---Economics-1908-0-04.txt---
must meet and also give the clue as to the line of real progress.
An economist cannot hope to succeed either in gaining
personal renown or in influencing the public by book-making or
essay writing; the only part of his work that lives on is his
charts, diagrams and contrasts. To say this is probably to shock
and possibly to give offense. Most of us have an ambition to
write some day a ponderous volume, and if we lack confidence
in our ability to do this we at least hope some of our contemporaries
will do it for us. "Oh for an Adam Smith or a John Stuart
Mill to do for our age what they did for their own." We all feel
this and long for its realization, and yet those who try fail, not
from lack of ability, but because they are trying an impossible
task and are moved by a false ideal. The first volume of such a
treatise has occasionally been written but the repeated postponement
of the completing parts reveal obstacles that even the
ablest men are unable to surmount. The trouble is that the
author exhausts his contrasts, diagrams and charts in his first
volume and has nothing left for subsequent volumes except hazy
generalizations, dull descriptions and utopian dreams. In contrast
to this ideal of bulky volumes and complete discussion I hold
that the better the economist the clearer, shorter and more precise
are his utterances. The essence of economic literature lies in its
contrasts. A book is merely the trail along which its author
has gone in his search for clear expression and sharp analysis.
This is of great importance to the author but of little consequence
to the reader. In no place can this be more clearly
seen ,than in the Wealth of Nations. Who would go to Adam
Smith for his material? And yet there are hundreds of pages of
it badly arranged and poorly presented. The book would have
gone to the trash pile as soon as printed if this were all there was
in it. The real gems in the book are its fresh contrasts. The
very possibility of a scientific political economy depended on the
contrast of sympathy with self-interest and the form that the
economics of the next century was to take was fixed by the contrast
of land, labor and capital in production and of rent, interest
and wages in distribution. From these contrasts no one has
broken but they all might have been stated on a single page or
put in telling diagram. The five hundred pages of reading matter
which it took Smith ten years to collect and to write is of value


### ---Economics-1908-0-05.txt---
to the student of his development but is of no consequence to
those who after him take up the task of creating economic literature.
Malthus and Ricardo were likewise successful in their
contrasts but failed in their attempts at book-making. The
successful writers of to-day show this fact even more tellingly.
What could have been more important and effective than the
contrast between present and future goods and where is there
more of a failure than the book in which this gem is imbedded?
And if one may without offense pass a judgment on our greatest
living economist I will say that I have pitied him for the pressure
of false ideals which made him spend years to write a volume
of many hundred pages to express contrasts that could have
been more forcefully put in a twenty page pamphlet. No
one can write a four hundred page book that will stand. Telling
contrasts get an immortality that is denied books and the more
concise the expression the longer the life and the greater the
influence. The phrase "Economic Interpretation of History" is
worth more than all the books that seek to expound it. The
force of socialism lies in three phrases " Class Struggle, " " Exploitation
" and "Surplus Value." No one who has mastered these
concepts need study Marx's diffuse and obscure argumentation.
Giddings' Sociology may be divided into two parts, the book and
the phrase "Consciousness of Kind;" and the phrase will outlive
the book. Our concept of the problems of population has been
radically altered by the phrase "Race Suicide." Many volumes
as erudite as Malthus' Principle of Population could not have
had the influence it has had nor thrown so much light on the
problems and tendencies of our age. So, too, The Abolition of
Poverty gives us a thought that volumes of description could
not express, for with one stroke it separates poverty from the
moral background with which it has been associated and shows
it to be an evil for which society is responsible. Poverty is
changed from individual depravity to mal-adjustment and
with this new viewpoint a world is opened up for enthusiasm
and sympathy to conquer. Hobbes' "State of War" Rousseau's
"Natural Man," Ricardo's "Cost Prices." Spencer's "Survival
of the Fittest" are vivid illustrations of the fact that phrases
are more important than volumes and have an immortality that
no scientific book can gain. Only when we recognize this


### ---Economics-1908-0-06.txt---
principle can we see the tremendous waste of time and energy
that book-making has imposed on the scientific world. No group
of scientists has suffered more from this error than the economists.
We have had the misfortune of having our origin in the undifferentiated
field from which has also come the moralist, the political
scientist and the historian. As our traditions come from them
they give to our literature a form not fitting to its content. The
moralist and political scientist naturally cultivate fluency because
their contact with the public is mainly through spoken words.
The historian cultivates elegance and can hardly get started
before the third volume and the sociologist is quite as bad a model
because he starts with Adam and seldom gets beyond Moses.
In such company the economist seems to be a hybrid product
of book worms and hair splitters. In contrast with them his
instincts should be that of a bookkeeper and a cartoonist. He
should be orderly not fluent, clear and concise, not diffuse or
ornate. He should cultivate visual expression by using charts
and diagrams and arouse the imagination by striking phrases
and vivid contrasts. His vehicle should be the newspaper and
the magazine not the scientific journal. The public want what
we have and if we have something it does not want it is not worth
having. To be scientific is to be popular. There is no renown
worth having but that of the newspaper and the magazine and
the class room. To fail of appreciation in these quarters is a
confession of defects that prove a man's unfitness. A student
should go from us to fields less closely attached to the present
where other tests than the power of expression suffice to give
men standing and repute. There can be no economic literature
apart from general literature. We give the content to which
others give the form. To separate ourselves from the general
literary movements of the age is to deprive ourselves of influence
and literature of a content. Other. writers must be our spokesmen;
we must be their guide and inspiration. The place of the
economist is on the firing line of civilization; his product must be
clear, concise and impersonal, instead of being submerged in
bulky volumes and formal treatises. Our real affinity is with
the journalist, the magazine writer and the dramatist and not
with writers, who separated by time and space from what they
describe, function as critics of persons and events instead of being
actors in the -momentous struggles of the present.


### ---Economics-1908-0-07.txt---
I remember the satisfaction I once had when a fellow economist
said "the library is our laboratory." I then thought that our
sources are the accumulated records of past epochs and that what
the past tells about the present is of more value than what the
present tells of itself. If, however, the current economic events
are of more importance than the defective records of the past piled
on library shelves an economist has no business to be in a library
nor to send his students there except as it contains and classifies
current literature. He has less use for a card catalogue of musty
books than for one of events, editorials and articles of the passing
year. We need fresh observations, not fine arguments; we need
clear contrasts not the accumulation, arrangement and restatement
of antiquated obsolete data. No fact is valuable to the
economist unless it is also valuable to the journalist who summarizes
events, the editor who comments on them and the
reformer who uses them. No argument is good in a book or in a
classroom unless it would convince the million readers of a daily
paper and could find place in the campaign book of a political
party. The book goes nowhere unless it goes to the reader of
papers and magazines. Thought is no longer in isolated compartments
affecting only particular persons or classes. Its waves are
like effects of a pebble thrown into the ocean. If it moves the
particles it hits, it moves every other particle no matter how distant.
If we move our students we move the world. If we fail
to move the world we deceive ourselves if we think our students
have been moved by the specialized knowledge we hurl at them.
There is but one real world and whoever would exert an influence
must be in it. Let the historian, the sociologist and the student
of literature have the library and all the gems they rescue from
its dark corners. Economists should work in the open and get
their inspiration from the struggle and evolution which passing
events reveal; for where change is there should also the economist
be.

So long as economic scholarship is associated with library
research we may expect theses to continue as a test of economic
proficiency. Second-hand data and antiquated material thus
get a place they do not deserve. The student is turned away
from real life and often acquires a prejudice against it. A three
hundred page thesis not only does not fit a man to be an economist:


### ---Economics-1908-0-08.txt---
it really incapacitates him for work. The failure of young teachers
is mainly due to the overspecialization that thesis writing invites.
It takes years of hard knocks to realize that the facts of theses
and books are not good material for the classroom. Library economics
is a vice that hampers the growth of the science more
than the hair splitting logic of would-be reformers. We must
some time learn that real investigations cannot be carried on in
libraries no matter how complete they may be. We must also
learn that individual investigators no matter how well directed
seldom add new facts to our fund of knowledge. The range of
social investigations is so great that only largeinstitutions like
the Bureau of Municipal Research, the Russell Sage Foundation,
or the national government can really do effective work. Under
these conditions a thesis is a waste of time and a misapplication
of energy. It merely adds a new statement of old facts to a
market already overstocked. The young economist should be
drilled in effective presentation not in fact accumulation. His
home should be not in the library but in the classroom and when
sufficiently proficient to investigate, he should be loaned by the
university to the government, to local committees or to institutions
capable of handling social problems on a scale that commands
success. The university should furnish investigators but
should not become a mill for turning out small scale investigations
that excite ridicule instead of respect. If it encourages
bookmaking innumerable volumes appear that merely rearrange
old material and give a personal touch to old arguments and
viewpoints. Give men two dollars a page for writing articles
and a journal will have the same facts presented different ways
in each of its volumes. We want, however, net results not the
gross product. Measured in this way our books and j ournals
make a pitiable showing. And this will continue as long as
universities encourage book-making and economic journals pay
for articles and reviews. If these props to misspent efforts were
removed the number of books, articles and reviews would be
reduced to their normal proportion.

A scientific writer should have no other reward than what
comes from a love of work. The test of his growth in thought
is the reduction of the space he uses to present it. It is hard to
tell which is the worse evil: to have a scientific writer expand an


### ---Economics-1908-0-09.txt---
essay into a huge book or for a popular writer to collect his essays
and articles into a similar volume in the hope of passing them off
as a scientific product. Both evils confuse and annoy and can
be removed only by concerted action following a clearer recognition
of the function of economic literature in modern life.
A publisher to whom I offered a book said that it would give
me a reputation but there would be no sales. I have pondered
on that remark many times. Is the reputation that comes from
a book having no sale a real reputation? And is not-and this
question I ask in all seriousness and with much hesitation-is not
a reputation that you or I acquire through books published by
our universities or the periodicals they support a fake reputation
-that it is not honorable for us to have? If there was no real
world and no large audience seeking increased light on current
problems we might be justified in accepting such support and pride
ourselves in the luster it gives. But when real tests of success
are at hand false ideals prevent the application of tests that
would sift the chaff from the wheat. For Jones to write for
Smith and Smith for Jones-or for both of them to write large
books to enable them to pose before college presidents, Boards
of Trustees and admiring groups of friends makes a farce of
economics and prevents its advance. So long as we are useless
pampered creations of false university ideals our books and
pamphlets are of no more consequence than we are when wearing
caps and gowns in a university parade. A bit of color, an impressive
picture perhaps for parents and friends to look at when
they come to see their sons graduate, but something soon to be
forgotten except as a part of a pleasing memory.
In reality our books are of less consequence than caps and
gowns, and I doubt not that universities would profit if they used
the money now spent in printing useless books and journals in
giving more color and grace to public anniversaries. So few of
the public go to libraries or read reviews of pompous volumes,
that self-advertisement in these ways must bring a meager return.
And why shall false investment of time and energy be demanded
when a real public is at hand craving for information and inspiration.
Surely economists have little reason to accept false standards
when real tests are so plainly visible. Teln articles written
for special journals should not give the reputation that comes


### ---Economics-1908-0-10.txt---
from having one accepted by any reputable magazine that makes
effective presentation a test of acceptance.
To outline a program for the reform of economic studies is too
large a task for a presidential address, yet some of its principles
are so evident that the address would lose point without them.
We have consciously tried to create graduate schools of economics
and have failed, yet our work has in an unplanned blundering
way passed over into the undergraduate world and succeeded.
The reason for this is that with undergraduates we have been
forced to cultivate clearness of thought and have thus found a fitting
field for our activities. Reform in the graduate schools means
a like transformation. They must be changed from schools of
acquisition to schools of exprossion. The ideal graduate school
is a school of journalism just as the ideal undergraduate school
is one fitting men for business. We will never make a graduate
school of business, try as we may, but we can create a school of
economic expression that trains men for teaching, magazine writing
and journalism. A good debater is a better economist than
a writer of theses and to have won an intercollegiate debate should
count more than library work. Every economist should seek for
journalistic experience and have his standing measured by his
success. No economist is an economist until he has said to himself,
" I wish I were an editor. "

If this be true the complement for graduate economics is not
history, politics and sociology but literature and law. We should
be grouped with other social sciences when teaching undergraduates
but we should sharply isolate ourselves from them in graduate
work. Our fundamental needs are for the power of expression
and the spirit of legality. Economists are by education and tradition
revolutionists. The Lord made the world in seven days;
we want to remake it in one. So we join hands with anarchists,
socialists and other advocates of violent change and cry ourselves
hoarse in advancing their measures. Economics is like a South
American republic; no one is satisfied unless there is a revolution
once a decade. Law, however, is the one social science that has
advanced solely by evolution and we have much to gain by acquiring
its spirit. And law would gain equally by an alliance with
us; for the socializing of law is the most important and pressing
need of the American people. Legal encrustments of social traditions


### ---Economics-1908-0-11.txt---
are the worst foe of progress. Law can be made mobile
only by the proper appreciation of economic change; economics
can be saved from a series of revolutions only by the spirit of law.
When these two sciences are properly blended evolution will be
constant and progress orderly.

Comrades, are you satisfied? Do you point with pride to what
you have done or do you look ahead for new fields to enter? We
can all, it is true, report an increase of students, more enthusiasm,
better results. But are these worthy objects, the goal of economics?
To me only two ends seem prominent enough to deserve
approbation: the redemption of the college and the control of
public opinion. The one end we can attain through the superiority
of our class instruction; the other we can acquire indirectly
by giving clearer ideals and better programs to those who direct
public affairs. We now have the place in education that Greek
formerly had and upon us therefore depend the perpetuation of
the college and the ennobling of its aims. We must socialize it by
making sympathy, co6peration and generosity its dominant
ideals. What we do for the college our allies can do for the
nation. First the economist, then the journalist and finally the
legislator; this is the order of progress and the key to success.
The world is ours if we enter it by the right door.
 ## Economics-1908-1


### ---Economics-1908-1-01.txt---
(I907) have emphasized the importance of the much
debated question of the relation of government to business.
A few months ago the President of the United
States was in many quarters enthusiastically praised for
his assertion of the power of the federal government to
make business men and corporations amenable to law. A
few weeks ago the voices of most of these acclaimers were
silent in doubt, while another group of people, on account
of these same assertions, were declaiming vigorously
against the President as the immediate cause of the panic.
The question has likewise arisen in our different states in
connection with the Governlment control of insurance
companies, of savings banks, and other business corporations,
some of these of a more or less philanthropic nature,
while, besides the socialists, thousands of our most unselfishly
patriotic citizens have urged upon the public the desirability
of municipal ownership and management of the
water works, lighting plants, street railways and other
so-called public service industries.

It seems a fit time to inquire whether any fundamenltal
principles in connection with this question can be recognized
as having some permanent application. If there
are such principles, they must nlaturally be found in the


### ---Economics-1908-1-02.txt---
nature of government and in that of business. A brief
review of so broad ancd complicated a question, even
though it contains little that is new, may still be useful in
bringing together some old and well-worn but perhaps
partly forgotten truths that may prove suggestive. In
making the attempt in the very brief period of time
allotted, I shall not argue poinlts; I shall simply state
them as settled, even though I am aware that the statement
is debatable. It is often perhaps as great a service
to state a question for discussion as to argue it.
THE AUTHORITY AND CONTROL OF GOVERNMENT

NECESSARY.

2. In all civilized states, whether government be personal
or popular, a fundamental condition of political stability
and of social and economic prosperity is that under
the constitution and customs of the country, so far as the
individual members of society need control, they must be
controlled by government and the government must direct
these activities of the citizens as it thinks best. In a democracy,
and it is chiefly of a democracy that I shall
speak, if the people think that the views or the acts of
their representatives, either in the legislatures, in the
courts, or in the executive chair, are wrong, they may
endeavor to secure a change of the law or a change in the
personnel of their rulers; but in either event, the law,
while it stands, must rule, and the office-holders actually
in power must use their discretion. The interests of the
people, of course, should be safeguarded, and in the long
run, if the people have judgment, they will be safeguarded;
but in any event there cannot be business success without
stable government. The doings of the people in cases
where the government acts, must be through the hands of
officials and these acts must be put into effect in the manner


### ---Economics-1908-1-03.txt---
and in the degree that the officials for the time being
think best. The only legal right that the citizens have,
so far as government activity goes, is that of having
their will carried out through their officials.
IMPRACTICABILITY OF THEORY OF NATURAL RIGHTS.
3. Large numbers of our people find a basis for argument
and apparently much personal comfort in a discussion
of their "natural rights", as if they had rights
opposed to the legal rights given them by the state. Such
an expression is, of course, an excellent talking point as
a basis for argument to convince people, and perhaps
through themn to change the opinion of the government as
to what otight to be done. But, as an immediate principle
to direct governmental action, the theory of natural rights,
as interpreted by the individual beyond what is laid
down in law is a Ivagary of enthusiasts, a breeder of fanatacism;
aind it is harmful, because it turns aside from
practical means the minds of many of our most unselfish,
high-minded, public-spirited citizens. The only sound
basis for advocating a change in governmental policies
is that the welfare of society will be improved by the
chalnge advocated. Let all arguments for social reform
be made on this basis; let the weight of argument show
the practicability of securing the desired benefit; convert
thereby as many of the citizens as possible; thus you
may convert the government. The whole question of
governmental activity in business matters is not one of
the "natural right" of an individual as against his government
or against his fellow citizens; it is one of the
thoughtful judgment of the few men who are directing
the affairs of political society as to the practicable means
for doing their duty under the powers laid down in the
constitution and laws.


### ---Economics-1908-1-04.txt---
CITIZENS MUST RECOGNIZE THE AUTHORITY OF
GOVERNMENT.

4. Too little emphasis is often laid upon the importance
of having fixed in the minds of the citizens of every
country the fundamental principle that the only way in
which citizens can act politically on any social question is
through the government. There exists of course the socalled
right of revolution, but this may be ignored as
foolishly impracticable in this connection. In all countries,
though most easily in a democracy, the will of the
citizens may comparatively easily be brou-ht to expression
if people are thoughtful and active, and not one proposed
reform in a thousand is important enough in its effect
upon the welfare of the citizens to justify any setting
aside of the authority of government for its accomplishment.
People sometimes foolishly, on account of the
slowness of governmental action or the corruption of a
few government officials, apparently despair of the success
of popular government. How many times within
the last ten years we have heard wild talk about the
ownership of our government by the moneyed classes,
and of the impossibility of having a wealthy malefactor
brought to justice. Some of our late governmental actions,
such as the judicial decision in the Northern Securities
case, the investigation of the insurance companies
in New York, and the exposure of the Trusts by the
Bureau of Corporations, have been chiefly valuable, not
for their immediate results, but for showing the public
clearly and conclusively the very simple but all important
truth that government can and does rule. How far then
the government of any state shall control business and
business men and in what manner, is a matter within the
determination of the government itself, keeping always
the welfare of the citizens in view.


### ---Economics-1908-1-05.txt---
GOVERNMENT CONTROL WILL VARY UNDER INFLUENCES
OF VARIOUS KINDS.

5. The extent and method of its conrtrol of industry
will vary in different coulntries and under differing circunstances.
There can be no general rule laid down but
this: The action of the government ought to be based on
the special circumstances of each individual case. All
comparative studies of the experiences of differenit countries
in different lines of industry can be only suggestive.
For the settlement of any such question, however, various
factors will always be found which must be taken into
careful consideration.

POLITICAL CONDITIONS AFFECT CONTROL.

a. The political circumstances of the country, determined
quite possibly by geographical considerations, will
often be a dominating factor. Germany, for example, is
so situated geographically between France and Russia
that, in order to be certain that it can maintain its independent
existence under threatening circumstances, it
must be prepared to concentrate its military power in overwhelming
force with the greatest rapidity at the shortest
notice. Under such circumstances, considering modern
methods of warfare, its railroads should be built primarily
to serve promptly its military needs, although, of
course, its network of lines will probably in the long run
serve this need best if it also serve well economic ends.
Likewise the management of these roads must be such
that the government without materially lessening their
efficiency, can take immediate control and direct the traffic
to military ends with little loss of energy. The government
of Germany then must so control its railways as to
keep them always in readiness for war. It must own and
manage them, even thotigh in so doing it were to weaken


### ---Economics-1908-1-06.txt---
their economic efficiency. A similar line of argument,
altho entirely different in detail, might well apply to Russia,
to Fran-ce and to many other countries, while it would
have application in only a slight degree to Canada, to
Brazil, or to the United States.

CONTROL ULTIMATELY NOT A MATTER OF LAW, BUT OF
ECONOMICS AND POLITICS.

1b. The question has of late often been discussed,
sometimes in a rather heated way, whether the control
of the railways of the United States should be state or
federal, and in what degree our cities should, of their
own motion, control their lighting planits, and tlhe answers
to these questions have often been sought along
the line of legal precedent. The question is ultimately
not one of law, but of economics and politics. Considering
our form of government, a court decision of fifty
years ago may, to be sure, for the present, be a determining
factor; but in the long run, such a question is not to
be answered by legal precedent; it is a matter of economic
and political benlefit. As the decades pass by, industrial
inventions and economic conditions bring about
changes so important that our legislatures and our courts
are gradually forced to recognize them. The clause in
the Constitution of the United States concerning commerce
between the States, in the minds of the members
of the Conlstitutional Convention of 1787, referred to
local tariffs, to commerce on a small scale by water, or to
petty traffic in wagons over state boundary lines. If our
Constitution is to do its work, it must gradually have its
meaning adapted by Congress and the courts to new conditions
as they arise, and no technical interpretation in a
judicial decision can ultimately stand against the interests
of the community as they are affected by economic


### ---Economics-1908-1-07.txt---
c'hanges. Our courts declare the law, it is true, but in
declaring the law, they must keep ini mind the fact that
the intention of prime importance in the minds of our
forefathers was the welfare of the people throughout the
coming generations; and they will not rigidly insist upon
an unchanging applicatiotn of old words to new conditions.
The Courts will of course be slow and careful
in their adaptations of laws to new conditions, but eventually
the conditions will force the reasonable interpretation.
Some people are of the opinion that our Courts
of last resort would be strengthened in this kind of work
if one or two mnembers were men trained primarily not in
law bu-t in the principles of business. The suggestion is
worth careful consideration. In the discu-ssion oI stuch
questions as these just asked, therefore, the point chiefly
to be kept in minid is this: Are the local and state governments
so organized that they can meet the new economic
conditions? We need not now inlquire what specific
conditions the foulinders of our government had in mind
when they wrote the Constittution, with the added thotught,
perhaps, that we must, so far as possible, attempt to hold
oulrselves back to the conditions of a century ago. With
present conditions in mind, federal control of interstate
railroads seems the only reasonable control.
CONTROL DETERMINED BY PEOPLE S ECONOMIC HABITS
AND CHARACTER.

C. We must keep continually in mind also as important
factors, determining the extent and nature of government
control, the character and industrial habits and
temper of the people. If the citizens of a country are
ignorant, unenterprising, poor, weak, they will have little
initiative and the government must take into its own
hands the organization, financing and management of


### ---Economics-1908-1-08.txt---
important industrial enterprises until the people can themselves
be trained by observation and gradually increasing
experience to undertake them. It may be that in many
instances, the government which thus controls and directs
large industrial enterprises, and which should act for the
benefit of the people as a whole, will be corrupt, and that
considerable profits, even great fortunes, will be turned
into the pockets of the corrupt officials. But even granting
that tlhis may be clone (for I wish to blink no truth,
however unseemly), the evil is probably only temporary
and one that is perhaps in some countries almost to be
expected. Even under the most adverse circumstances
the benefit to the people from the industries and from the
training which they get along industrial and political lines
will in all probability bring them further forward in civilization
and will enable them sooner to get both the honest
control and the economic benefit than if the undertaking
of the enterprise were delayed until among the people
themselves were found men with the initiative and the
capital to direct a great industrial enterprise, like, for
example, the building of the Assouan darn in Egypt or
the Trans-Siberian railway, or the Panama Canal.
On the other hand, if the people are intelligent, enterprising,
wealthy, in very many instances they will
develop the industries of a country without political danger
far more rapidly by themselves under merely slight
governmental supervision than such enterprises could
possibly be developed by the government itself.
BY PEOPLE' S HABITS OF POLITICAL INDEPENDENCE OR
SUBSERVIENCE.

d. Again, if a people have been for generations under
rigid governmental control, being used to dictation and
subservience, the government management becomes both


### ---Economics-1908-1-09.txt---
easier and more necessary, while a people that is alert,
ambitious, and used to self-direction, will, in general,
prefer to do its own work and can successfully do it.
BY NATURE OF INDUSTRIES CONCERNED. THOSE CONNECTED
WITH GOVERNMENT.

e. I. The character of the industry, too, affects strongly
the extent and nature of governmental control over it.
Certain industries are so closely associated with the government
that is it practically essential that the government
manage them. The necessity of careful and rapid transmission
of intelligence on government business led governments,
even in ancient times, to establish post roads
and relays of messengers by whom orders could be sent
from the central government to outlying provinces.
Gradually out of this necessity of government has grown
our post-office system which seems now to exist primarily
for the conduct of private business; but if, as at times
has been suggested, the post-office business were to be
put into private hands, the government would still need to
exercise control so rigid that its own messages would
certainly be carried promptly and secretly. For similar
reasons governments as a rule erect their own forts,
maintain their own arsenals, and usually build their own
warships. Entirely aside from the question of relative
cost, most governments will prefer to build their own
war-ships; and even where this is not done in their own
yards, the government control must be absolute.
THOSE OF PRIME IMPORTANCE TO THE PEOPLE.
e. 2. Even some industries that are not practically a
part of the government's business, may yet be of so
fundamental concern to practically all citizens that it
would be considered dangerous to leave them in private


### ---Economics-1908-1-10.txt---
hands, provided the individuals concerned could make of
the business a matter of personal profit. For this reason
the coinage of money is considered a function of sovereignty.
Banks are put more strictly than most other lines
of industry under government control. In our own country,
since education is looked upon as the foundation of
good government, our schools have become public schools
and the element of personal profit has been almost entirely
eliminated from our educational system. It may seem
odd to class schools with industries, but some schools, I
fear, grind out graduates for profit. Still schools run
for private profit now occupy a very subordinate position
and are to be considered only as supplementary to
our public schools for the benefit of those who have
liberal means of support. The extension of our postoffice
facilities into remote country districts, where the
receipts do not nearly cover expenses, is justified on the
same grounds. The cheap and rapid transmission of
information, as a means of education, must be carried
even into districts where a private corporation could not
afford to do the work.

THOSE REQUIRING GREAT CAPITAL WITH RETURNS LONG
DELAYED.

e. 3. In earlier times, before the financial resources of
the leading countries were so great, and before the corporation
as a method of business organization had become
common, all enterprises requiring great capital had to be
in the hands of the government in order that the resources
of the country could be tapped by taxation to
undertake them. Under modern conditions in Europe
and America this is no longer necessary, but wherever
the returns from the investment are only remote, governments
still sometimes need to undertake such enterprises.


### ---Economics-1908-1-11.txt---
Several of the most important governmental activities in
the United States to-day, although industrial in nature,
are of this type, especially those which relate to the
development and conservation of our national resources.
Foremost in the public eye is the Panama Canal; but of
scarcely less importance are the noble plans of the present
administration for the development of our great inland
water-ways, the bringing under cultivation through irrigation
of vast tracts of territory otherwise arid and
useless, the reclamation of swamps and bayous through
the building of levees and drainage ditches, and the
rapidly developing movement for the conservation and
eventually the profitable cultivation of our forests. All
these enterprises are of such a nature that, although they
are fundamentally industrial and ultimately enormously
profitable, the government, to protect the interests of
coming generations, must exercise immediate control and
in most cases must carry on the industry as a government
enterprise. Most of these colossal undertakings, however,
are of such a nature that the larger part of the direct
work can be done, if necessary, through the aid of private
corporations, the government retaining ownership and
exercising control in the careful inspection and supervision
of contracts.

THOSE MENTIONED BY JEVONS: MONOPOLISTIC, SIMPLE,
PUBLIC, NEEDING LITTLE CAPITAL.

e. 4. It has been the usual experience that wherever
the element of private profit enters into the management
of industry, the work of administration is likely to be
more efficient and the cost of production decidedly lessened,
so that we need to note what kinds of industries
may be managed by the government with least waste. In
i867, in his address before the Manchester Statistical Society,


### ---Economics-1908-1-12.txt---
defending the direct management of certain lines of
business by the state, Professor Jevons laid down in his
suggestive way the following principles concerning the
industries, and the only industries, he thought, which
could wisely be managed by the state:

I. Where numberless widespread operations can only
be efficiently connected, united and co-ordinated, in a
single and extensive government system.

2. Where the operations possess an invariable routinelike
character.

3. Where they are performed under the public eye or
for the service of individuals, who will immediately detect
and expose any failure or laxity.

4. Where there is but little capital expenditure, so that
each year's revenue and expense account shall represent,
with sufficient accuracy, the real commercial conditions of
the department.

The post-office is perhaps the best example of such an
industry. Professor Jevons thought these principles applied
fairly well to the telegraph and parcels post, but
not to railways. As applied to England thirty years ago
his opinion was probably sound. The experience of the
last few years would probably permit in several countries
some extension of these principles; but they are still
extremely suggestive and useful in testing industries
which the government contemplates managing.
GREAT EXECUTIVE TALENT BEST PAID BY PRIVATE
COMPANIES.

6. The success of all great industrial enterprises depends
largely upon the executive head-he must be interested
and be as intelligent and as skilful as possible.
Such men must ordinarily be chosen only for the sake
of the business itself. The experience of centuries has
shown that, take it by and large, the motive of selfinterest
is the one that can best be counted upon to


### ---Economics-1908-1-13.txt---
secure the best executive talent. Under our present stage
of civilization private corporations will give higher pay
and better facilities for individual initiative and skill in
work than is possible for the State in the present condition
of public opinion. It is generally conceded here as well
as in England that lawyers and captains of industry
receive far greater rewards in private life than in public.
Some striking examples have been afforded in recelnt
years by the men who abandoned the greatest engineering
enterprise of the present century, the Panama Canal, in
order to enter the service of private corporations.
BUT MEN SERVE ALSO FROM SENSE OF DUTY.

And yet, on the other hand, the attractiveness of public
service for its own sake and for the sake of the distinction
of office or from the sense of patriotic duty, is likewise
not wanting. Men now in the Cabinet, on the bench
of the Supreme Court of the United States and in the
CouLrts of Appeal in our states, have sacrificed tens and
scores of thoousands of dollars a year to enter the public
service. Every person of wide acquaintance can nmention
instances from among his own list of friends. It is perhaps
most usual to find instances of devotion to public
service among men who have been especially trained for
that, as in our officers in the army and navy. The only
possibility of special reward for men of this type is the
added reputation of doing excellent work in a position of
great responsibility and the consciousness of duty well
done. The spirit inculcated at Annapolis and West
Point stands ready to sacrifice self if necessary for the
sake of duty. I am glad to say that I have found not a
little of this same spirit of devotion to duty in the civil
service. I think it is rapidly extending and that this will
soon materially affect our government work. On the
other hand, men trained to rigid unquestioning obedience,


### ---Economics-1908-1-14.txt---
whose entire life is placed at the disposal of their superiors
f rom day to day, are, I think, likely to lack somewhat
in the personal initiative demanded of those whose
way from obscurity to success must be fougLht through
stern competition. In private management of business
the weak are rutlhlessly cut out, the strong move forward.
In public life men are much more likely to receive positions
through political pressure or through a type of
examination that does not give the best test of efficiency,
or through routine work and length of service. For
these reasons we ordinarily expect to find, and experience
shows that the expectation is well-founded, that enterprises
will generally be carried through mnore promptly
and with less expense in the hands of private managers
than under public management.

ATTITUDE TOWARDS SOCIALISM.

7. These circumstances indicate clearly the wise attitude
toward socialism, if by socialism we mean the policy
of taking into the hands of the state for ownership and
management the capitalistic industries. Possibly such a
policy may be best in some ages and climes; such a policy,
however, could be successful in modern industry only
by a change of human attributes or of social conditions
so great as to be practically revolutionary. An avaricious
man is not likely to become public-spirited in office; he
will rather prostitute his office to personal gain.
We need not, however, be frightened by a name. It
may well be, that, under certain circumstances, a city may
find it wise to own and manage its water works and its
street railways; under other circumstances for special
reasons, usually political, a state must administer its
railway system; again, a great manufacturing enterprise
or a gigantic work of public betterment may wisely be
carried through by the state. Experience, however, in


### ---Economics-1908-1-15.txt---
various ways and under differ-ing circumnstances will
show that for the present at an-y rate such instanlces are,
relatively speakin-g, rare. Wherever it is miade clearly
probable that the policy of public managemenlt is wise, it
shouldl be adopted; but it would be unwise to declare offhand
that all capitalistic enterprises at any time in any
future, however remote, can best be managed by the
state. It is unsound even to put that forward as a
desirable end. The end looked for is the welfare of the
citizens. Wherever and whenever that can best be secured
by public ownership anld 1nanagement there can be
no objection to such form of enterprise. Under present
conditions such a policy is relatively seldom wise, for
both economic and political reasons. The burden of
proof in each case rests upon those advocating it.
AND TOWARDS ANARCHY.

The other extreme of governmental policy, scientific
anarchy, or the practical abandonment of all governmental
conltrol, is still less often possible; but we may
freely concede that either socialism or scientific anarchism
in special ages and in special countries might be wise.
CONTROL BY COMMISSIONS OR INSPECTORS.

8. Less rigid and less difficult than direct management
is the control that governments may have in connection
with the system of private enterprise. A legislature or
the executive may lay down fixed rules for certain lines
of industry, and a commission or an inspector may apply
these rtules in special cases. We have in many states
railway commissions and bank inspectors whose work is
largely judicial in nature. This kind of work does not
demand so ambitious a talent, nor a talent so high-priced,
although the judicial gift is no less useful to the public,
and possibly no less rare than those of the captains of


### ---Economics-1908-1-16.txt---
industry. Even, therefore, where it seems best to abandon
the idea of direct public management of industry,
it is well within the power of the government and may
much more frequently be found advisable to adopt a
system of rigid public control.

EFFECTS OF GOVERNMENTAL MANAGEMENT UPON THE
PEOPLE.

9. Of vastly more importance than the immediate
ecomnonic result, whether good or ill, of the government
management of industry, are the indirect effects upon
the temper and intelligence and development of the people.
The effects of government activity in industry are
some of them good, some bad. It is desirable to discriminate
carefully, and in determining a governmelnt's policy
to perform so far as possible only acts that will have a
good effect upon the people.

IT MAY SET AN EXAMPLE TO PRIVATE ESTABLISHMENTS.
As has already been explained, the government activity
in behalf of the general welfare can at times be carried
out on lines impossible for a private company. It is possible
for the government, if necessary, to support an-i
industry in part by taxation, as, in order to increase the
general intelligence, we in part support our post-office.
For the same end the Government may in certaini lines
make experiments, industrial as well as political. With
careful regard for cost of work and justice to the taxpayer
the Government in its industrial enterprises should
lead and educate public opinion in promoting the welfare
of society. In all government enterprises, a standard of
excellence should be set in the quality of work done, in
the conditions of work of the laborers, in strictness of
accounting, in upright maanagement.


### ---Economics-1908-1-17.txt---
IT SHOULD FIX LIMITS OF COMPETITION.

It may sometimes be desirable, in order that the benefits
of private enterprise may be secured without giving to
private corporations the unreasonable profits which under
certain monopolistic circumstances they might be able to
secure, that the government compete directly with private
enterprise in order to hold prices within reasonable bounds.
It might become best for the post-office, for example, to
extend its parcel post in competition with the express
companies. Ordinarily, however, the government can
best direct the private management of public enterprises
through inspection and supervision rather than by direct
competition. We must recognize the fact that competition
affords on the whole the best stimulus to effort, to
originality of thought, and to the development of personality
in enterprise. The government may thus, as
already intimated, speaking generally, secure the public
welfare best by encouraging private enterprise, simply
fixing the limits of competition within standards of
honesty and efficiency of service. This principle of
competition, too, it should be recognized, is found not
merely in business where the reward is money profit, but
likewise in all other fields of endeavor, where the reward
may be fame or merely a spirit of self-satisfaction over
good work well done. There is competition in football,
even in philanthropy, as well as in money making. The
government should simply see to it that the competition
in all directions is kept within fair and just limits.
THE GOVERNMENT CANNOT ESCAPE THE RESPONSIBILITY
OF CONTROL.

IO. Whether the government will or no, it cannot
throw off the responsibilitY of supervision and control
over such industrial enterprises as we have considered,


### ---Economics-1908-1-18.txt---
and it seems certain that, unless business men learn to
recognize more fully their obligations to the general public,
the government must extend the range of its control.
IT MUST EXTEND ITS CONTROL UNLESS BUSINESS
PRACTICE CHANGES.

I I. Many of the business men of the country do not
yet fully recognize their obligations to the public, nor do
they see clearly the fiduciary character of their business.
They are trustees for the public in no small degree.
Tlaey excuse themselves for many acts inimical to the interests
of the public on the ground that they may prove
beneficial to their stockholders-and this in all good
faith. With the increase in the size and complexity of
business organizations, however, the principle of caveat
emptor ought not to be made to apply in general. The
common man cannot care for his own interests. A depositor
in a bank, for example, cannot of himself judge
the risks he is taking. If the banker will not carefully
protect his depositor, the Government should compel him
to do so by more rigid control.

RELATION OF THE PANIC TO GOVERNMENT CONTROL.
The fact is that the late widespread suspension of cash
payments throughout the country, disguised somewhat by
the use of clearing house certificates and other devices,
and by the fact that bank notes were safe, is a public
calamity due less to the activity of any government official
than to the need of more rigid government control. Failure
to honor a check in cash is enough of the nature of
failure to redeem a bank note so that such an act ought
not to be passed over lightly. Our bankers, in order to
pay high returns to their stockholders, had in some instances
gone much beyond the limit of safety in reducing


### ---Economics-1908-1-19.txt---
their reserves. They had too often resorted to practices
doubtful for a fiduciary business; they had counted deposits
in other banks as part of their owni resources, a
practice which, though legal, is of doubtful wisdom, and
when the storm came, each looking to his own need (with
the exception of some of the larger establishments whose
own close relations with the market compelled action),
got what cash he could and retained it in his vaults, thus
increasing the tension of the stringency. Unless the
bankers can devise better plans than they now practice
for checking the reckless among their fellows and hearteninag
the over-cautious, the Government must play a
more active part in control. I do not mlean that the
Treasutry is to be more active in an emergency. The
governnient must do more to prevent the emergency's
arising. And this principle applies, not only to banks, but
with greater emphasis to all great companies, railroads
and trusts, AVhose stocks are at the mercy of the directors,
and the prices of whose products within rather broad
limits are only slightly regulated by competition. What
does a stockholder in a great corporation like the American
Tobacco Co., or the American Sugar Refining Co., or
the Standard Oil Co., or any of the 50 largest Trust companies,
kncew of the real value of his holdings and of what
may be done within three months to increase or lower the
value? And what does the public know of the measures
that may be taken to increase or lower the prices which
the grocers must pay the manufacturing, companies for
their goods? Business men in these important positions
will in time learn their duty toward the public, but probably
the Government must lead the way. The change
from small industrial conditions to large has come so
swiftly that the business men in most cases are not morally
to blame for their lack of adjustment to new conditions,


### ---Economics-1908-1-20.txt---
but they will be blameworthy, if they delay, and
the Government does well to stimulate their activity.
SUMMARY.

I2. It would be beyond my purpose at the present time
to apply these general principles to specific cases in the
United States, and to give my opinion as to exact rules
that the Government should lay down or as to the
industries which the public should own or control. I
consider only a few general principles. This much may
be said in summary. In the discussion of such questions
as public control of public service corporations we ought
not to be swayed at all by the fear that we shall be called
either socialists or scientific anarchists. We should recognize
that there is mnuch truth in the teachings of those
who advocate government ownership and management;
perhaps an equal amount of truth in the teachings of
those who advocate the let-alone policy carried to the
extreme. The public and scientific thinkers owe a debt
to both classes. It is our duty to judge each individual
case on its own merits, taking into account local conditions,
industrial, political, and personal. Moreover, we
should recognize the fact that society and political institutions
are changing and progressing and that a policy
wise to-day may be unwise twenty years hence; that a
policy successful in Europe will probably not be equally
successful here; that in no case can we accept as conclusive
the experience of others or even our own present experience;
and that on the whole the government probably
needs to extend its control especially over the larger companies,
unless their managers take the ptiblic more fully
than now into their confidence. In every case our final
appeal is to common sense, good judgment, and an unselfish
regard for the public welfare.
 ## Economics-1910-0


### ---Economics-1910-0-01.txt---
is not intended to revive the old discussion of the relative
merits of the deductive and the inductivTe methods.
I desire to avoid controversy, and shall therefore grant
that political economy is "essentially hypothetical in
character"; and, for the sake of harmony, I am willing
to take oath to Jevons's statement that "however useful
may be empirical knowledge, it is yet of slight importance
compared with the well-connected and perfectly explained
knowledge, which constitutes an advanced and
deductive science." But while there is no intention of
contrasting the relative importance of abstract reasoning
and observation of facts, it will also be taken for granted
that the expert in hypothesis welcomes observation and
the accumnulation of facts, either to verify the propositions
which have been advanced or to lay a substantial
basis for further speculation.

It is assumed then that there is no jealousy between
these two co-workers, theory and observation; and that
each ungrudgingly recognizes the services of the other.
It is also assumed that an unrelated and unrelatable fact
is rubbish, fit for the waste basket; and that an hypothesis
unsupported by fact is a spirit of mischief which deserves
eternal imprisonment.

The activity which is displayed at the present time in
the collection of facts relating to the interests of the
economic life may well excite admiration. In no delpartment
of human effort is there greater ardor. It is characteristic
of the work of govern-menlt bureaus, legislative


### ---Economics-1910-0-02.txt---
committees, judicial investigations, commercial and philanthropic
organizations, endowed trusteeships for research,
magazines whose curiosity penetrates into the
remotest corner, as well as a host of unattached students.
Great progress has been made in the past twenty-five
years. Although the domesday survey mapped out in the
celebrated census of i88o was a notable achievement, the
range of observation since that date has been vastly extended.
We know how many eggs were laid in Alaska;
we measure the glass surface of florists' establishments;
we have laid bare the balance sheets of the counting room;
in our census we distinguish between one and two-seated
sleighs; we can tell the proportion of checks to other
monetary media; we know how much gold is consumed in
dentistry; we have explored the mysterious labyrinths of
monopolies and large industrial corporations; we have records
of accidents and strikes; we have studied analytically
the causes of poverty and degeneration; we have observed
the physical and mental condition of children and have
made record of the food they eat and of the hours they
sleep.

Activity in observation does not mean that the work is
well done, or that there is an intelligent consideration of
the means to an end. Notwithstanding the activity, we
are disposed to distrust the accuracy of much of the descriptive
and statistical data thus collected, and we seek
in vain for material which is wanting. Examples will be
readily called to mind. We are still in doubt as to the exact
changes in rates of wages for equivalent amounts of
work performed; we still have a misgiving as to the variations
in prices, although we freely admit that this is giving
way to confldence; we are still in the dark as to the cost of
production of the staples of consumption; we still are tin--
able to frame reliable survivorship tables for lack of statistics


### ---Economics-1910-0-03.txt---
of births; and we still want important monetary facts
in order to deal intelligently with the currency problem.
But aside from omissions, there is the confusion in the
facts which are now available. Well may we long with
Professor Clark for the "discovery of facts which meai
something and are capable of orderly arrangements and
interpretation." Otherwise, as he says, "there is danger
of collecting a mass of information so vast and chaotic
that it will be useful chiefly as a means of moral disciplinle
for the baffled student."

For the present difficulties it seems to me that we are
largely to blame. In devoting attention so exclusively
to "determining what are likely to be the immediate and
ultimate effects of various groups and causes", economists
have lost sight of a certaini share of their elementary
responsibilities, and because of this the science suffers.
It is not to be inferred, however, that economists
have shirked intentionally. I believe they appreciate the
need of observation and exact data, and that never were
they - so far as their reasoning goes - more free from
dogmatizing than at the present time; but in the more
absorbing interest of abstract processes, they have quite
naturally failed to become' acquainted with the methods
of the work of their - I will not say neighbors, but servants
who provide the facts.

Consider the recent systematic text-books on political
ecomony. The method of exposition is largely through abstract
reasoning; some of them, indeed, may fairly be
termed treatises in applied psychology. And here again, I
have no complaint to offer. It is probably the best method
of presenting the subject as a scientific body of knowledge,
but this method does not necessarily involve the use of
facts except in most general terms. The ordinary reader
does not realize that these general affirmations are based


### ---Economics-1910-0-04.txt---
upon the assembling of a large number of concrete units
which have been so frequently observed and recorded
that they have lost their individual identity and become
merged into a generalization which appears as an abstract
formula instead of a familiar vitalized phenolmaenon.
Again this is no criticism of the method; it is true
of all scientific exposition, including natural and physical
sciences. But what are the consequences?
Other sciences have their laboratories with an army
of observers and experimnenters. In nearly every instance
the abstract reasoner is himself an observer and expnerimenter.
He is, at any rate, sufficiently skilled in observation
and experimentation to guide and check the observations
of his assistants. It is agreed, however, that
political economy cannot use a controlled experiment as
one of its tools, and that in so far it is not to be compared
with the physical sciences. It is, moreover, agreed that
observation in the field of economic life is extremely
difficult, but no one, it is to be presumed, will admit that
because of this difficulty observation is to be abandoned.
So far as I am aware, no one has proposed this; although,
because of this obstacle, some have despaired of
there being any true science of political economy. If we
refuse to accept this discouraging alternative, we must
have observation, difficult though it may be. If this be
conceded, the subject has two practical aspects, first the
need of finding a place for its exercise in our courses of
instruction, and, second, the need of directing and improving
the vast amount of observational work in the interest
of public welfare.

The subject of economics is taught to an increasing
nuLmber of youth, and the growing interest is likely to
continue. The pedagogical responsibilities are thuts becoming
more and more serious. All will agree that


### ---Economics-1910-0-05.txt---
accurate observation is a desirable object of educational
effort, and that the student should receive some
instruction which will enable him to recognize and classify
the facts of economic life. And it is here that
writers of systematic treatises might very properly in
their introductory chapters place greater emphasis upon
the character and service of observation. As a rule, our
text-books dwell uponl definitions, methods of reasoning,
the relative value of deduction and induction, the application
of mathematical ideas, and the scope of economics
as distinguished from cognate sciences; but give very litthe
attention, if any, to the part which observatioln plays,
its importance and its limitations.

The instructor has at least one, if not all, of three ends
in view: (i) The development of mental power on the
part of the student irrespective of the acquisition of any
particular facts; (2) the acquisition of a certain nLumber
of useful facts in regard to the business world, irrespective
of their ifumediate relation to general prinlciples;
and (3) a mastery of the principles and a knowledge of
the facts so that the future citizen can apply himself with
some degree of gratification to himself, and some degree
of benefit to the world, in the explanation of economic
problenms as they press upon him; At present these aims
are imnperfectly met. It is generally acknowledged, I believe,
by teachers that the method of instruction is unsatisfactory,
and, in so far as the instructor follows the
text-book, the student too frequently agrees with this
judgment. This is a natural consequence of existing conditions.
The student by previous training is unable to assimilate
the psychological generalizations dogmaticallv
assumted in the text-book exposition; and the facts which
are supplied by the instructor at irregular ilntervals, in
unequal doses ranging from a single phenomenon to a


### ---Economics-1910-0-06.txt---
mass, chapter-deep, culled at random both as to time
and as to territory, do not fit into a system of reasoning
so as to make a lasting impression. As a result the student
leaves the subject with but a hazy notion of the
science as a whole; and, what is worse, has not made an
adequate gain in mental power through the training of
his faculties in abstract reasoning.

For my part, notwithstanding my interest in the descriptive
characteristics of the economic life, I am often
drawn to the conclusion that for the sake of the student
it would be better to accept economics as a deductive
science pure and simple, and treat it as a series of rigorous
exercises in abstract reasoning, rather than to perpetuate
the disconnected, mixed, and incongruous
method which so many text-books impose upon us today.
The doubt is prompted because we find so much apparent
variation in the abstract reasoning. It may be that this
is an unfair judgment, and that there is a larger content
of accepted reasoning that I have implied; but, if this
is true, the language of exposition and the terminology
employed have so disguised the familiar concept that it
appears to be a stranger.

We may hope, however, that progress will be made
toward agreement even within a limited field. When
this is accomplished, and there is a sufficient amount
of material presented in a form which can be safely
turned over to the student, from which he can with confidence
gain a knowledge of the fundamental principles
and their application as derived by logical processeswhen
this is done, our problem will be greatly simplified,
for the writer or the teacher will no longer be harrassed
by the feeling that in some way he must make good the
uncertainties of his reasoning by thrusting into his exposition
a certain amount of useful knowledge relating to


### ---Economics-1910-0-07.txt---
the economic life. The study and presentation of the
facts will then occupy a separate field of its own; its cultivation
will be carried on by independent and intelligent
methods for certain definite, clearly prescribed ends.
Pending this happy deliverance, however, what can be
done for the student, and what can be done to save observation,
induction, and the significance of facts so that
their imiiportance will not be wholly lost?
Taking political economy as it is written, it is that
body of knowledge which treats of the relation of the
wants of m'ien to thing,s which will gratify these wants.
Even many of the authors who retain the classical definition-
of political economy as well as the traditional division
of the subject into four parts, in which emphasis
is put upon the physical world instead of psychical wants,
are influenced by this conception, and apparently would
prefer to treat the subject from the latter point of view.
Possibly they hesitate to make the change because it
breaks with past literature, or possibly because they feel
tlhat under Lhe newer treatment there is not the opportutnity
to use as large a supply of facts relating to the material
world as they think desirable in order to retain the
interest of their readers.

There are two fields for observation: first, the wants
of people, and, second, the things which they want. The
student understands far less in regard to this territory of
wants than the writers appear to take for granted. Authors
admit the importance of the classification and
analysis of the wants. Selecting two recent text-books at
random, from one I read that the question merits long
and careful study; and from the other: A first step is a
clear analysis of the character and motives of the business
man. And yet the first of the writers states that the
general answer to the question, What is the motive:


### ---Economics-1910-0-08.txt---
force? is so simple that it seems almost self-evident, and
the second writes: The motives to business activity are
too familiar to require analysis.

If the present method of exposition is to persist. the
student may well tarry for a longer period than the consideration
of the few pages usually allotted to this topic
demands. It is possible for the student to do practice work
in classifying these wants. In his own experience he has
a laboratory, and by observation he can add other data.
Some of the text-books which are pedagogically provided
with questions recognize in some slight measure the desirability
of this process and the possibility of tindertaking
it. From my point of view the discussion of these
questions, and the procedure to be followed for their
analysis, should at least precede, if not in a large measure
be substituted for, the text which is now given.
Why ask a student whether food, tobacco, medicine,
whiskey, a pack of gambler's cards, or a wooden leg, is
wealth; but rather, who wants food, whiskey, or a
wooden leg? and why, and how much does he want the
given wooden leg? From a consideration of wants alone,
I believe that an extensive tract of economic life could
be surveyed, a survey which would acquaint the student
with a large mass of material arranged under a methodical
scheme; and, what is perhaps of more importance,
the acquaintance of these facts would give vividness and
reality to the subsequent exercise in reasoning.
It will, however, be objected that it is not necessary
to put a student through a prolonged course of wants in
order to undertake the series of rigorous exercises in abstract
reasoning; that observations on the six sacks of
wheat are all that is necessary to grasp the idea of marginal
utility and its related progeny. This may be
granted, though with some doubt; but I assume that the


### ---Economics-1910-0-09.txt---
exponent of abstract reasoning wishes to find some place
for observation and induction. If perchance the instructor
is held up or temnporarily barred from entering
into the higher realm of abstract reasoning, may we not
hope that, though chafing under restraint, he will apply
himself to aiding the student in methods of observation,
classification, and induction, and thus provide an expert
guidance in a difficult art?

My complaint is not confined to those who approach
economics from the standpoint of man's psychical nature,
but includes those who enter from the other gateway and
first view the physical world. Seldom does their guide
take lodgings and acquaint his followers with the features
of the country into whichi they have entered. He
hastens on, stopping at a few traditional stations where
supplies have been stored in advance for another day's
march, but rarely permitting the tourist to stray far
from the personally conducted party. The latter sees
through the eyes of the guide: this is wealth, a beautiful
picture; that is a free economic good, a nmere daub,
not worth seeing; this is competition, a work of Gothic
architecture; that is property, a Roman ruin. And for
tranquil observation of this much, they are often interrupted
because of the insistent messages from their distant
friends who began at the other end of the route and
are urging them to hasten over to view the tropical sights
of man's psychical nature.

What are economic facts? Our students are learned in
defining and analyzing such terms as wages, price, income,
profits, but how many of them know what is a
wage, a price, an income, a profit? But few can distinguish
a strictly accurate price observation. Is it a gross
or net price? Has it a discount or a sub-discount? A spot
cash or time credit price? How large a quantity must be


### ---Economics-1910-0-10.txt---
purchased to secure the price offered? Is it an open price,
or restricted to a certain number of customers? Is it an
artificial or natural price?

A mistake is made in inferring that the observation of
an economic fact is an easy operation. Observation has
only recently been regarded as an indispensable tool of
the natural and physical sciences. But it will be said that
everyone in these days has a wealth of economic information
at his command, and that it is unniecessary to impose
upon the student any special task in observation. A
large number of the so-called facts lose their reality when
translated into the language of the economist. Past experience
appears to count for very little, and the student
must begin to learn the art of observation with a new pair
of glasses to correct the strabismus with which he has
been previously afflicted.

Certain facts are like gold in placer deposits, readily
detected and worked out; others, however, are disguised
and hidden in a composition, and can be extracted only by
ingenious mnethods. As a large part of the gold product
of today is obtained by sulphide and cyanide processes
which involve an expert knowledge of chemical properties,
so an increasing number of facts need to be assayed,
and can be analyzed only by a knowledge of the economic
material in which they lie imbedded. Nor would I imply
that all complex relationships can be disentangled, but
what we ought to insist upon is that the observations we
do rely upon shall be indisputable. To change the figure,
we erroneously take it for granted that our economic
facts are already sorted, neatly arranged in parcels, labeled
and ready to be picked up as they are wanted. For
the great mass of mankind this convenient possession
does not exist. Rather they are scattered about at random,
or heaped up in piles at every conceivable angle;


### ---Economics-1910-0-11.txt---
only the corners of many of them are seen; and if ever
labeled at all, too frequently the labels have been nlisplaced.


Are we not rash in assuming that the concept, competition,
is generally understood? And can it be understood
until we ask who compete, where do the units compete,
or to what degree do they or can they compete? The
term nmonopoly is used as if there were no doubt as to its
implication, and yet few recognize a monopoly when they
meet it face to face in the broad sunlight, and many apply
the term when it has no true significance.
Our observation is governed by our imagination. As
the psychologist observes, one child sees in a stick a
horse; another, a doll; and, we may add, under the influence
of this fancy, creates around this stick anl unreal
world. One observer of a group of economic phenomena
will see an industrial warfare in which each of the units
is endeavoring to exploit his fellows; another in viewing
the same picture beholds a scene of tranquillity in which
each is following his own intent, and realizing his own
individual desires. Each creates an unreality. We would
not destroy the imagination of a child, but fanciful imagination
is not the tool of science. In time the stick becomes
to the child nothing but a stick and is evaluated
as such; but for the adult there is no training which will
dissolve the economic fantasy.

Moreover, exact observation is necessary to serve as
the basis of deduction. If the facts are vitiated, how can
abstract reasoning test its results; how can it dare to attempt
new flights? If Newton had not been able to distinguish
between an apple and a puff-ball, it is probable
that his famous hypothesis would have gone unprovoked.
Imperfect vision is responsible for much of the economic
reasoning associated with schools of propaganda at the


### ---Economics-1910-0-12.txt---
present time. The error of Henry George, socialists, or
extreme individualists is not so much in their reasoning
as in defective observation. Too many of them cannot
distinguish between puff-balls and apples.
At the present time we are interested in currency reform,
an interest largely stimulated by certain phenomena
witnessed in I907. For a satisfactory discussion of this
question there are three elements to be considered: first,
the phenomena of I907, that is, the facts of the panic;
second, the causes; and, third, the remedies. The first is
a matter of observation, the others involve our reasoning
faculty. Do we know the fundamental and elementary
facts which are associated with this panic? One observer
notes that the Hepburn Act was followed by a loss of confidence;
another that it was succeeded by enthusiastic
confidence and unbridled speculation; one observes that
the phenomena of the panic were local, another that they
were international, extending over four continents; one
observes that the currency was inelastic, another that not
for many years had there been so much expansion; one
observes that an excessive amount of wealth had been diverted
to enterprises which were not immediately productive;
another that the amount was not relatively
large; one observes that Wall Street speculation was at a
comparatively low level in the two years preceding October,
1907; another that stock exchange operations were
exceedingly violent; one observes that the panic was the
severest within the memory of man, another that it was
not so disastrous as those of I893 and I873.
Now these are questions of fact; and until these differences
are reconciled and agreement as to what really
happened is attained, how can we profitably busy ourselves
with judgment as to causes or remedies? If we
spent as much time in dissecting the panic of I907 and


### ---Economics-1910-0-13.txt---
noting what really happened in the twelve-month previous
as we do in devising ingenious machinery for establishing
a new currency system, we might perhaps move
more slowly; but later we should at least have the assurance
of knowing what we wish to accomplish.

The complexity of our phenomena appears to defy accurate
observation. There are so many variables that it is
difficult to separate the mass into its compollent parts.
The economist is asked: Is the present increased production
of gold responsible for the advance in prices? and
replies: I do not know; there are so many forces at work
which might affect prices, I cannot be sure which is the
determining cause. A braver answer, and I believe a
more accurate explanation of ignorance would be to attribute
it to inadequate observation. If our knowledge of
past experience was enlarged, and every known instance
of increased prices was observed with simultaneous observations
of demand for commodities; of restricted supply;
of the nature of the commodity which was priced;
of the cost of production, and the volume of money; a
part at least of the error might be eliminated by adopting
the well known rules of logic which other sciences employ,
as the differential method, method of avoidance,
method of compensation, and so on. Great honor is due
to Mr. David A. Wells for attempting single-handed the
solution of this problem by one of the methods indicated,
and the example of his analysis ought to inspire
others to a similar task. As Mill says, "The order of
nature as perceived at a first glance presents a chaos followed
by another chaos." But Mill is not dismayed. He
continues, "We must decompose each chaos into single
facts. We must learn to see in the chaotic antecedent a
multitude of distinct antecedents, in the chaotic consequent
a multitude of distinct consequents."' Nor am I


### ---Economics-1910-0-14.txt---
advancing a plea for the piling up of more facts. Rather,
if it were possible, would I destroy a large part of the
so-called facts the existence of which is in reality an
obstacle to progress. What we want is accurate facts.
Many a monograph is non-usable because the observer
was not trained in observation, did not perceive with clear
vision, and did not record his data with precision.
A host of students are now engaged in the field of descriptive
economics. Some are disposed to think that too
many have been diverted into this field. The mistake of
these ardent workers is not in entering upon this work,
but rather in failing to recognize that it requires a special
preparation,-that it has an art of its own, to observe,
measure, and separate the phenomena which constitute
the object of their research. Possiblv the economist
thinks that he is not concerned with these observational
workmen; but we have a practical situation to meet.
Many are not gifted to engage in abstract reasoning, and
others are not attracted to devote their energies to this
field of intellectual activity. It is impossible to check
this interest, but is it not possible to make the work of
these enthusiastic recruits more effective?
Our subject, however, has another aspect which concerns
the public interest rather than the methods of
pedagogical instruction. As has already been observed,
there is actually existing an enormous amount of observation
in the field of economic activity. The scope of
economic facts is so vast, the data are so scattered, and
the analysis of these facts is so complex, that it cannot be
expected that the task of observation will be carried on by
individual enterprise alone. Much of it is assunmed by
government or subsidized endowment. This has been so
in the past, and must be increasingly so in the future. If
this be true, the only way to secure a scientific supervision


### ---Economics-1910-0-15.txt---
of the process of observation is for governments to put
the work into the hands of scientists, or at least to call
them into consultation. It may be said, however, that
the simple collection of economic facts does not require
the services of experts trained in economic analysis; that
the gathering of data in regard to production, prices, consumption,
etc., demands intelligent and honest administrative
effort, but not necessarily a specialized economist.
The objection is ill-advised; the economist and the sociologist
ought to make their influence felt at every stage
from original observation to final generalization. Because
of this neglect at the initial step, we are now swamped by
a mass of material which in part is rubbish, of no use to
anyone; in another part of so little use that it does not
justify the expense of collection; and which in still another
considerable portion is so inaccurate that it is open
to suspicion, and cannot be safely used for purposes
either of induction or deduction.

Suppose an economist should endeavor to frame a
scheme of facts which he requires for his economic generalization
and processes of reasoning, what facts would
he demand? Under present conditions he has at hand an
enormous mass of material supplied by statistical bureaus
which in order to justify their maintenance are not compelled
to meet an expert demand. They furnish data
which can be easily gathered together, or which will conform
to ideas of serviceability long since abandoned, or
which will make an impressive showing from the standpoint
of quantity. Let the economist go through the
mass of statistical documents and reports of commercial,
industrial, and charitable organizations, and direct his attention
solely to the question,t-in what way can this fact
be used, in what way is it of service, or in what way can
it be analyzed so that it will be of service in- the near future,


### ---Economics-1910-0-16.txt---
how much would receive the mark of approval which
would justify its retention? Is it too much to say that a
considerable part would be passed over? Supply of material
is now furnished under monopoly conditions, and
};ot under the stress of competition,-a force which
quickly discards useless effort. Demand ought to control
the supply, but, as it is, supply mystifies and befogs the
demand. Monopolistic production, generously subsidized,
of all fornms of production requires expert direction.
No one individually is to blame for this condition of affairs.
The fault is in the systemn. The economist has
been living far apart from the official observatories. Busy
with the analysis of motives, psychological effects, gratifications,
welfare subtly conceived as a product of dynamic
forces rather than of static conditions, engrossed
with detecting movements, their direction and significance,
and with the study of differences instead of the
composition and characteristics of the things compared,
he neglects his humble co-workers whose business it is to
record economic phenomena in so far as they admit of
record. The observer has consequently been left to his
own devices; sometimes he is directed by the mandate of
a legislature which rarely seeks expert advice; sometimes
he has been prompted by a passing interest derived from a
newspaper discussion; sometimes by a personal whim.
More frequently he has proceeded along the line of least
resistance, recording data which could be easily secured,
irrespective of any other quality. As a nation we are
altogether too credulous, and have yet to learn that colunms
of figures are not statistics.

In making these statements I would not forget the valuable
work which many bureaus are doing. There is an
increasing tendency on the part of governments, whether
national, state, or local, to call into service trained students


### ---Economics-1910-0-17.txt---
to direct the administration of statistical affairs.
In maniy departments desirable reforms have been effected,
and yet too often somewhere in the administration
of these offices there is a cog missing which makes the
results unsatisfactory. Experts at the top may secure better
methods of interpretation, but they alone cannot secure
correct and accurate observation of the primary data
which are to be interpreted. Attention must be given to
the competency of the field workers, the factory operatives,
in order to justify the laborious inferences of the
experts who use the raw material.

Nor would I appear to slight the intensive and descriptive
studies of those who have made noteworthy contributions
to economic theory. Many of these have observed
to good purpose, as in transportation, taxation, agriculture,
and human vitality. Such activity proves that we
are fortunately supplied with competent directors. It
only remains to organize this potential force so that it
will mark out and conduct an intelligent program whereby
the nation can learn to know itself.
 ## Economics-1911-0


### ---Economics-1911-0-01.txt---
Somewhat more than twenty-five years ago some of us younger
men who were interested in the study and teaching of political
economy in the United States succeeded in organizing this Association.


The quarter of a century which has elapsed since that time has
seen a great change in the standing of the professional economist.
I think it is not too much to say that the voice of the student
of economics as such is today more potent in the United States
in the discussion and decision of public questions than it has ever
been before.

I believe that this greater position of dignity and authority
of the student and professor of economics is, in some degree,
however small, due to the work which this Association, as a body,
has accomplished; although, of course, any position of real
influence or authority which economists as a class may have won
has been due primarily to the actual merit of individual workalso
perhaps in some measure to the increasing willingness of
economic students to let purely abstract or academic questions
drop into the background if thereby some positive practical
advance could be made.

The policy of President Roosevelt and President Taft of selecting
university men, and by way of preference, university men
with economic training, for some of the most important expert
positions at their disposal is a clear demonstration of the changed
attitude of the people of the United States toward the scientific
study of our political problems. And this policy which has been
adopted by the federal government has been followed to a growing
extent in our states and cities. There is a greater willingness
to give the expert a hearing-at any rate, an increasing willingness
to hear all sides of a problem before a decision is made,
which certainly augurs well for the future welfare of the nation.
It is a source of legitimate gratification to us all that so many
memnbers of this Association have been drafted into the public


### ---Economics-1911-0-02.txt---
service. It is a source of still greater satisfaction that they have
all made good in this field of work. Hadley, Emory, Jenks,
Falkner, Rowe, Johnson, Kinley, are mere examples of a growing
tendency which is full of promise for the future of economic studies
and sound public policy.

At the time this Association was organized I felt that in the
interest of economic and social progress there would be a decided
advantage if economists could elaborate and support a positive
program of economic and social advance.

My colleagues with whom I was associated in the preliminary
and final work of organization did not share my views and this
Association has remained, therefore, primarily a scientific body,
pure and simple. I do not know, after all, that it has made any
very great difference, and yet I am still of the opinion today,
as I was then, that if our students of economics and politics and
social science could find any questions of public moment and
interest upon which they are in substantial agreement we might
make a marked contribution to economic and social advance by
taking a definite stand upon such questions of public policy. This
consummation has indeed already been brought about in certain
directions by the organization of specific associations for the study
and promotion of positive economic and social problems; as, for
instance, the Association for Labor Legislation which has grown
out of this Association.

I think, however, that if the members of this Association could
agree, for example (to take a concrete instance), upon the proper
distribution of public and private expenditure in relation to
national production and could work out a definite policy which
would commend itself to the members of the Association, directed
toward securing a more productive distribution of public expenditure,
we might, without doing violence to our scientific character,
produce a marked effect upon public sentiment and in the long run
upon public policy.

For instance, no matter what theory we may have as to the
social effects of war and the political advantage or disadvantage
of settling questions of international scope by force, I think all
students of economics agree that the modern world is -spending an
unreasonably large portion of the national wealth for purposes of
war and preparation for war. No matter how high a value one
may set upon the so-called moral benefits arising from an armed
struggle among different nations to determine the survival of


### ---Economics-1911-0-03.txt---
national ideals-and I know that there are still people who maintain
the moral value of such contests-no matter how high a
value one may set upon the educational discipline which universal
compulsory military service effects in the young men of a nation
which adopts it-and I am aware that there are some very
estimable people who set a high value upon such training-still
I think the overwhelming opinion of the students of economics is
that we have long passed the point at which it is desirable to extend
still further the war budget.

The statement has been made that of late the appropriations
of the federal government are distributed in such a way that nearly
seventy-five per cent may be properly classed as war expenditures,
that is, preparation for war, pensions payable on account of war,
interest on the public debt contracted because of war, etc., etc.
My own estimate runs higher.

Some twenty-five years ago I made a rough estimate of the
expenditures of the federal government up to that time from the
year 1789, covering nearly the first century of our national
existence. I found that the total expenditure for all purposes
on the part of the federal government had been something like
eighteen billions of dollars, and of that amount sixteen and onehalf
billions had been spent for war, using the term again in
its large sense, of money spent in preparation for war, in the
conduct of war, and in settling the bills after the war was over.
In other words, the expenditure of the federal government up
to that time had been sixteen and one-half units for war and one
and one-half for all other purposes whatsoever, including the
so-called enormous expenditures for river and harbor improvement.
Eleven twelfths of the income of the federal government
spent on war!

And this is a peaceful nation!

Nobody can deny that a country which wishes to develop. its
civilization in an efficient way must protect itself from armed
aggression and must maintain domestic order. Everyone will,
furthermore, grant that if we propose, for example, to fortify
our Atlantic and Pacific coasts in such a way that no fleet in the
world could make a landing, it will take very much larger sums of
money than we have thus far spent or have thought of spending
upon war and war's alarms. But it is a long call from admitting
that if we are intending to fortify our coasts in the manner
suggested we must spend far more money than we are spending,


### ---Economics-1911-0-04.txt---
to the proposition that there is any necessity for expending such
sums of money, or for undertaking to fortify our coast at all.
For my part I do not see how anyone who studies American
industry and our international position can help feeling that we
are already spending a larger proportion of our national income
upon preparation for war than is justified by any dangers which
actually threaten us.

Now I believe that if the students of economics would, acting
together, that is, if this Association would persistently, in season
and out of season, call attention to the danger of spending upon
war an undue proportion or our national income, we should be
able to affect very materially, in the course of years, the policy
of the government on this point. This may serve as a mere
illustration of the proposition that fundamental to any large
consideration of practical economic problems and of the actual
conduct of a national economy must be this question of how we
propose to distribute our expenditure, for what purposes we
intend to spend the national wealth which we have once created.
And as I believe that we have thus far spent entirely too much
money in war and for war purposes, so I believe that we have
spent far too little money for education. And it is this problem
which I wish to present to your attention tonight.
The manner of the consumption of wealth has a great and
fundanmental effect upon the production of wealth and upon the
possible increase in the production of wealth. That is, some forms
of consumption are distinctive hindrances to the increase of
wealth and no theory of production, no system of practical politics
can be in any sense complete or satisfactory which does not bear
this fact in mind.

So this evening I desire to discuss somewhat fully, from the
standpoint of practical politics, the effect of a broad scheme of
national education upon the increase of national wealth and what
policy we ought to adopt in regard to it.
The subject of my remarks this evening is, the Economic
Significance of a Comprehensive System of National Education.
I mean by system of national education in this title, a system
of education so extensive in its scope as to reach every child,
and for that matter every adult too, within the bounds of the
United States or in the territory subject to its jurisdiction.
I mean by a comprehensive system of national education, a
system which will excite and develop all sides of the child and


### ---Economics-1911-0-05.txt---
adult, which will call forth and train all the forms of talent and
ability to be found in the children and adults of a great nation.
I mean by the economic significance of such system, the relation
which it would bear to the production of national wealth.
I need not say that no system of national education, in the sense
in which I use it here, has ever existed in the United States.
There are thousands, nay one may say hundreds of thousands,
of children within the United States and within the territory subject
to its jurisdiction who have never been reached by systematic
school eduication of any sort. There are thousands more children
in the United States and in the territory subject to its jurisdiction
who have never had the benefit of any schooling beyond a
mere attempt to bring to them the opportunity to learn, in a feeble
way, the elements of the three R's; and almnost no attempt has
been made to reach in any systematic way, for the purpose of
developing all the talent within its children, the population of
any single state of the American union. Nor has any attempt
worth mention up to the present been made to strengthen and
supplement such elementary education as is brought within the
reach of the young children of the commuinity by a system of
encouraging and sustaininig the further prosecution of the education
of the schools, in later youth and earlier or later adult life.
All economists have recognized, though I think in a very
inadequate way, the importance to the production of national
wealth of the intelligence, knowledge, anid skill of the laborer. It
would be an observation that could scarcely escape the attention
of any student of economy at any period of the world's history
that the more intelligent and better trained the laborer may be,
the more efficient would he be, other things being equal, as an
instrument of production in the general scheme of national economy.
But even these economic writers who have given most
attention to this aspect and have dwelt upon it most fully, seem
to me not to have realized the possibilities for the increase of
national wealth which lie in the increased intelligence, education,
and skill of the laborer. Very few of them have recognized the
extent to which this intelligence, this education, and this skill
may be increased by the conscious taking thought and conscious
action of the community, directed toward this specific end. Still
fewer of them have recognized that an educational system, in this
large sense in which I have used it, may above all be an important
factor in the development of that directing, managerial, initiating


### ---Economics-1911-0-06.txt---
talent which forms such an important element in the system of
national production, and which distinguishes nations and races in
quite as marked a way as the quality of the laborer himself.
I am aware that some authorities are inclined to deny that a
nation may by conscious effort increase the number or the potency
of these fundamental elements of national production. They are
inclined to think that just as the coal, and natural gas, and gold
and silver, and the possibly arable land are things given once for
all, so national talent and national ability are, so to speak, fixed
quantities. A nation cannot materially increase either their
amount or their potency by any conscious effort looking toward
their promotion.

Thus the great Bavarian economist and statistician, Wilhelm
V. Hermann, one of the shrewdest of the German writers on
economics, is very outspoken in his view that no nation can
through its school system or its educational system really increase
greatly the efficiency of its national industry. He says, "wie er
geboren, so ist der Mench sein leben lang :" "As the child is
born so the man remains as long as he lives:" though even he
would allow, I presume, that if we could have caught his grandfather
and trained him and also his father we might have improved
the grandson.

But, I believe that this is a mistaken view. I share the unconscious
feeling which seems to animate the American people to an
ever increasing extent that, by systematic effort, the latent
national ability may be called forth and may be trained to such
an extent as to make the result of such an educational system
essentially different in quality and in kind, and not merely in
quantity, from that which would be the outcome of letting things
take care of themselves.

It seems quite probable that a people like that of the United
States may, by systematic and persistent effort, develop to absolutely
unheard of and undreamed of proportions, the ability of
the nation in all the different directions in which human faculties
may be exerted.

Every student of human civilization must be struck by two
things: first, the large number of different elements which must
conspire together at any one time in order to produce a great
increase in national wealth; and, on the other hand, how few
people after all in the history of the race have really contributed
in any important way to working out the problems upon whose


### ---Economics-1911-0-07.txt---
solution the next great advance in civilization depended. No such
production of national wealth as has occurred within the last
generation could have taken place, of course, without the cooperation
of countless influences reaching back in their development
and origin into the remotest periods of the past. But very
small is the number of men after all who have really contributed
by their scientific discovery, or their inventive genius, in any
important way to this progress. If we could multiply that small
number by two, or three, or four, or five, or ten, or a hundredas
might easily be done if we were to adopt a system of education
which will discover, call forth, and train all the talent of the
community to its highest efficiency-the progress of civilization
would be correspondingly hastened. The human race has spent
such a large part of its total wealth in war that we have little
idea as to the enormous progress that might be achieved if the
energy and attention of the race could be turned as fully and completely
toward this problem of developing the race on the side
of its industrial talents as it has been turned to the work of
destruction.

This progress does not always seem rapid. The race, of course,
must have time to develop, must have time to grow, in order to
be capable of the intellectual effort, nay even of the prolonged
physical effort, involved in the production of such enormous
quantities of material wealth as have been produced within the
last century. It is inconceivable that the African or the American
Indian, as Columbus knew him, or generally speaking any barbarous
peoples, should develop within a generation or even two
generations those particular qualities to that particular extent
which are necessary to develop and maintain a high degree of
civilization. The mere qualities of endurance, or persistence, of
imagination, necessary to enable the civilized man to continue
at even the rudest of civilized occupations long enough to work
out their natural results are lacking to the barbarian.
Now, of course, it is undoubtedly true that the possibilities of
any system of education are strictly limited by these fundamental
facts founded in the nature of individuals and of races. But,
given the civilized white or yellow man as we know him today,
as the result of countless generations of ever expanding civilizations,
my proposition is that such a nation can, by a conscious
effort, increase to a very great extent the production of national


### ---Economics-1911-0-08.txt---
wealth, by discovering, developing, and training the productive
ability of its population.

The American people have been much concerned of late about
the coinservation of their natural resources, and they may well be
thus exercised. Waste represents an absolute loss in the human
economy. There is no doubt that we have permitted the national
wealth of the country to be exploited in an uneconomical way
in many directions, owing to the greed, or shortsightedness, or
both, of private interests. This exploitation has steadily been
accompanied at many points by waste. Waste is, economically
speaking, a sin for which there is no pardon. Its penalty must be
borne either by the people who are guilty of it, or by those who
succeed them, and the American people has undoubtedly been
wasteful in the exploitation of its natural resources. We have
mined our coal oftentimes in such a way as to destroy forever the
value of a large part of it. We have allowed our natural gas in
great quantities to escape into the atmosphere or be burned as it
camne fromii the bowels of the earth, with no resulting economic
gain. We have undoubtedly used at niany points wasteful methods
in the cutting off of our forests, and have failed to observe that
the larger interest of the community as a whole demanded a
greater care in the removal of our tinmber wealth.
But after all, the mere preservation of natural resources is not
in any proper sense of that term a conservation of natural re-
-sources, that is, such a care of the natural resources as will work
out the largest economic result. The American Indian had preserved
the natural resources of the North American continent
up to the coming of Christopher Columbus, and for anything that
we can see would have preserved themn for countless generations.
The Mexican peon still preserves the natural resources of great
stretches of the most fertile Mexican territory. The savages of
Africa, and generally speaking of all countries, preserve the
natural resources; but we can hardly speak of them as conserving
them in any proper sense.

There will naturally be great differences of opinion as to whether
any particular policy in exploiting the forests or the mines or the
fields is, economically speaking, wasteful or not. That which
seems to be wasteful at one time and under one set of conditions
may be the height of economy under other conditions. The lavish
use of natural resources may in some places be the condition of
developing a civilization which may subsequently find it necessary


### ---Economics-1911-0-09.txt---
to adopt entirely new principles of management, if its system of
exploitation is to be as economical as was the formler.
However, no matter how liberal we may be in permitting to
count as true economy the lavish use of natural resources in the
(levelopment of a civilization, I think there is general agreement
after all among students of the subject that the people of the
United States have at many points been wasteful in the true sense
of that term, namely, in producing their sum total of national
wealth at a cost beyond what would lhave beeni occasionedl if a
better systein of exploitation had been adopted.
But with this concession, I desire to emphasize again what
seems to me to be the fact in the case, that the discovery,
development, and training of the talents and abilities of our people
is of far more significance to the continued and increasing production
of national wealth than is the so-called conservation
policy, important as that is. We may fairly enough, if we are
wise in our day and generation, through the increasing intelligence
of our people, develop the conditions of an increase of national
wealth far more rapidly than we are losing them through the
exploitation of our natural resources.

I have myself never been able to become excited over the
demonstrations which are afforded from time to time that the
human race is destined ultimately to poverty and despair because
of the exhaustion of our coal fields.

We certainly should not waste our coals in the sense of using
them up with nothing to show for such use. But, on the other
hand, the proposition to preserve the coal which we may profitably
use now in the development of industry or increasing the comfort
of humanity because we are afraid that our posterity may suffer
from cold or hunger, would seem to me to be absurd. I believe
that if the race were to give its attention steadily to the scientific
and practical investigation of means of laying under direct contribution
the energy of the sun, of the falling water, the flowving
stream, the sweeping tides, the rushing winds,-I say if the race
would spend a tithe of the money upon the studv of that problem
which it has given to the study of the means of destroying its
members, we might safely proceed to use up our coal fields to the
last ton, relying upon our abilitv in the long run to discover
adequate-nay more than adequate-substitutes for the energy
and light and heat pent up in this wonderful storehouse of nature.
The same thing is true in regard to the exploitation of the


### ---Economics-1911-0-10.txt---
soils. We have not as yet reached an ultimate judgment as to tht
conditions of soil fertility, or as to the conditions under which
the productivity of soils is maintained or destroyed. We have
found out a few things in this respect, but the world of what we do
not know is so much larger than the world of what we know that
for my part I have never been able to feel that extreme anxiety
in regard to the depletion of our soils that many of my colleagues
who are engaged in the study of soil chemistry and soil physics
and soil biology have thus far felt. There is doubtless such a
thing as ruining the soil. There is such a policy as the ruinous
exploitation of the natural qualities and resources of the soil;
but I have a firm belief that if the nation, or the race, would
give its attention and its thought as seriously to the problems
of soil fertility as it has to problems connected with the
army and navy we should find ways and means of increasing our
crops while protecting and restoring the fertility of soils which
at present are quite beyond the possibility of even our imagination.
In the same way, while we are undoubtedly guilty of great waste
in the exploitation of our stores of iron, and such waste ought to
be stopped, yet I have full confidence that if we should give
thought and attention and money to scientific investigation directed
along right lines we should find some substitute for iron fully
as efficient and fully as helpful as iron itself, long before it should
fail us. And the same thing is true to a greater or less extent of
all our national resources.

I am aware that this view of human progress is scouted by
many as lacking substantial proof of its correctness, as mere
nonsense and the stuff that dreams are made of; and it is fortunately
not necessary for me, in order to make my point, to demonstrate
the full truth of the proposition, since all that is requisite
for my present purpose is to secure your consent to the proposition
that we may materially increase the conditions of national
wealth by a properly considered educational policy.
That the skill and intelligence of the average laboring man
in the United States were greatly increased by the astonishing
development of our elementary and secondary school system during
the years following the war must, I think, be conceded by any
student of our national history. And yet that education was very
largely limited to giving the rudiments of an English education,
such as reading, writing, and ciphering-and that not to all by
any means.


### ---Economics-1911-0-11.txt---
When our secondary school was developed, though at first
very narrow in its scope, it accomplished even more striking results,
because it helped develop the directing talent in the community.
A system of national education having in view the objects
which I have suggested must include, speaking generally, for the
people who remain in school, two elements, which for purposes of
discrimination we may generallv describe as the liberal and technical
elements. Under the head of the liberal element I should
include those fundamental features such as reading, writing, and
ciphering, which are the keys, so to speak, to the experience of the
race. But I should not by any means limit the scope of this instruction
to these three R's, for it is certain that one of the fundamental
objects of a national system of education can never be
realized unless the range of instruction in the elementary school
far exceeds these so-called fundamentals. Certainly one of the
purposes of any system of education must be to discover the
talents of the child, must be to find out in what way, that is, by the
special development of what faculties, he may do his greatest service
to his day and generation. Some men make their most important
contribution as ditch diggers, as farm hands, as mechanics
in the mills; others as directors in these occupations; still others
as artists, teachers, lawyers, or physicians. A national system of
education ought to find out the peculiar abilities of the child and
put him in a way to develop them. This means, of course, that
among the so-called fads, drawing and singing and a wide range
of art work, should be represented in the elementary school as
well as the teaching of reading, writing and arithmetic, geography
and history and science.

But no child can afford to spend even the first twelve years
of his life without coming in contact with some kind of training of
the body and training of the mind which touches in some direct
way the possibilities of his future occupations; and so manual
training and domestic science, at least in their rudiments, must
form a part of this fundamental, this common instruction which
all children should have. That is to say, when our compulsory
school laws are universal and really enforced, the school will have
before it the problem of occupying in the best way from seven to
eight years of the pupil's life; and in this time every child, not
merely the white children, but the colored children as well; not
merely the citizens of Massachusettts and New York, but those of
Alabama and Louisiana; not merely the children of Ohio and


### ---Economics-1911-0-12.txt---
Illinois, but those of the mountain regions of the South and those
of the semideserted portions of the older states, shall without exception
have access to these opportunities.

But a national system of education will include, furthermore,
foi every child, an opportunity for technical, special training,
looking forward to the career which the child is expecting to take
iup or which his parents are planning for him. This means in a
large sense-and why should we hesitate today to speak it out
bol(dly-a system of trade schools, a system of occupation schools
so universal, so comprehensive, varying, of course, in character
witlh the conditions in the different localities, that every child
shall have the chance to prepare himself more efficiently for his
life work in a trade or other occupation.
It is national waste of the first magnitude to turn children into
the avenues of trades and commerce and industry in this great
niation today without some of that kind of training for such work,
which the school best of all can give. The apprentice system,
as you all know, in the old form, if it ever was the ideal thing
which it was supposed to be-and for my part I can find no
evidence that it was-has at any rate today gone to pieces. The
children of the communiity do not have a fair opportunitv to
prepare themselves on the technical side for efficient work. A
portion of this preparation, moreover, can be best given for nearly
every occupation in the school, and that portion should be the
heritage of every child.

But hundreds of thousands of children must, as a matter of
fact, under our present economic conditions, go directly and
imnmnediately from the compulsory school period into the process of
earning a living. And the demands of industry are such as to take
practicallv all the time and strength of these young people from
the very moment of assuming this new burden.
It lies in the interest of the community, looking upon these
children as mere instruments of production, regarding them as
mere means of increasing the national wealth, to see that conditions
are such as to make them ever more efficient elements in our
scheme of national production. This means that the school system
must provide some systematic, continuation school opportunities;
and if necessary that the laws regulating the labor of youth shall
be so changed as to provide an opportunity for all young people,
from the completion of the compulsory school age and for at least
two or three years after, a chance to get that benfit which comes


### ---Economics-1911-0-13.txt---
from the assistance which a well organized school agency can bring
to them, in the form of definite school instruction. This means,
of course, a radical and pronounced, and withal expensive, addition
to our educational system.

I would not have you understand that I believe that a systematic
school education is the only training of value for the youth of a
country in preparing them for their work as productive agencies.
Far be it from me to maintain any such proposition. I have seen
many cases of children who in my opinion would have learned
far more on the farm, in the shop, and in the office than they were
learning at school. On the other hand, there is not a single
occupation which requires skill, industry, and strength, in the
training for which the school, if properly conducted, cannot contribute
a more efficient element than any other agency at work
niow in our society; and my proposition is that our educational
system be so organized that this element can be introduced into
our school system in the first place, and into our industrial system
in the second place.

What I have said thus far in regard to the elements which
enter into a comprehensive system of national education, applies
to all modern nations alike,- to England, France, and Germany,
to every civilized country of Europe or of Asia.
But this is especially true in the United States today. We are
trying to be a republic. We are trying to develop a democratic
state. We are far from having reached any such consummation,
but at any rate we are working toward it; and with every passing
decade I believe we are making some progress in spots; and if in
some places there seems to be deterioration or retrogression, owing
to peculiar circumstances, yet in others there are evident signs of
rapid evolution toward higher things.

Now no state can, politically speaking, be a true democracy,
unless it has also become a true democracy industrially speaking;
and one of the elements of a true democracy, industrially speaking,
is an opportunity for every child to develop the industrial capacities
within him to the very highest possible extent. This cannot
be done unless aside from his fundamental education involved in
the three R's, and the things wlhich go with them, is also given a
chance for the acquirement of technical skill in connection with
intellectual development, so that a combination of industrial facility
with a developing brain and a developed body may be effected.
Such a system of education is especially necessary in the United


### ---Economics-1911-0-14.txt---
States today because of the terrific strain to which our institutions
and our life are being subjected by the enormous immigration into
our body politic and body social from nearly every land under the
sun.

We do not yet know very much about the effect of the mixture
of nationalities upon national progress. We do not even know
enough about the laws of biology to determine whether the outcome
of such a mi4ture will be good or bad; but one thing I think we can
be perfectly sure of, and that is that the inpouring of these
enormous masses of people of such varying intellectual standards;
of such varying ideals, political, social, and religious; of such
physical differences-must threaten in the most marked way the
ideals and practices and institutions of this great republic. The
ultimate outcome may be good, for I am one of those who recognize
very distinctly that the ideals of some of these immigrants are in
certain directions higher than our own; that they are bringing
to us qualities in which we are defective; and I have great hope
that, in the long run, great good will come out of this accession
to our ranks. But in the meantime everything threatens to become
more or less unstable. It becomes more difficult to forecast
what is going to happen under a given set of conditions; and in
all this development a comprehensive system of national education
is needed, a system which will take hold of everyone of these
foreigners and of his children and work them over and digest
them, so to speak, make American citizens of them, enable them to
comprehend our history and our ideals, help them to appreciate
our standards, and, if theirs are higher than ours, help them to
make these effective. In all this work nothing is for an instant to
be compared in effectiveness to such an educational system as I
have been outlining, a system which will actually take hold of
every child; will give him the elements of a common education, and
will train him for efficiency in American life and industry.
Friends, we are very prone to brag on our educational system
and our great facilities, but it does not do for us to close our
eyes to certain plain and simple facts; and on such an occasion
as this we ought to consider them with care. The fact is that
no civilized nation has within its midst any population of equal
numbers so sunk in ignorance, so beyond the reach of modern
educational influences, as the negro population of the United
States, particularly in those sections where, owing to their numbers,
they practically become a dominating element,-not dominating


### ---Economics-1911-0-15.txt---
in the sense that they formally control, but dominating in
the sense that the whole social and educational and industrial
policy must turn around them, and reckon with the facts of their
intellectual and moral development.

The industrial training of the Southern negro is one of the
fundamnental national needs of this great country. But it isn't
a thing which inerely concerns Louisiana or Alabama or Georgia
or Carolina. It is something which affects the interest of every
part of this great nation.

Owing to social conditions it is necessary for the South to
provide two entirely different, distinct, though parallel, educationial
systems. Now it is simply impossible for the Southern
people to provide two efficient systems of education. The burden
is too great. The nation ought not to ask it of it. The nation
ought to insist that this problem be taken up and solved, but it
ought to be willing to help bear the burden of its solution.
But aside from the negroes, I think it is also safe to say that
there is no population of equal promise, of equal abilities, so
devoid of educational facilities in any large civilized country as
are the mountain whites along the Appalachian Mountain chain,
and into the valleys and over the mountains of that great region.
Here is a popul.-,Ji n of extraordinary value from an industrial
poinit of view, if it were made available for national development.
The men whom these people have contributed to the life of America
are an illustration of the wonderful stores of unused ability
uipon which the nation has not drawn at all. It would be a good
investment for the United States of America as a nation to put
tat national expense into this region an efficient educational system,
even if the states concerned did not contribute a single dollar to it.
The educational condition of the Southern negro, the educational
condition of certain portions of the Southern whites, is a
reproach to the American nation.

But these two striking cases do not by any means exhaust the
illustrations of my proposition. In manv respects, in spite of
all our great development, in spite of our growth, of which we
may be proud, we are still lagging behind not only our own
possibilities, but the actual achievements of other nations. The
rural schools over a large extent of the wealthy Northern States
are taught by a more uneducated and a more inexperienced class
of teachers than would be accepted as satisfactory instructors of
the young either in England, France, or Germany. And even if


### ---Economics-1911-0-16.txt---
we go into our large cities, under the most favorable conditions,
we shall find that we have only begun to make progress in the
direction of the technical training of our youthful population,
which I have indicated as a necessary element in such a scheme of
education as I have proposed.

Now my next proposition is that a system of education which
is to accomplish the things I have sketched out, and really become
effective in this large sense for an increase in national production,
must be national in scope. That is, it must reach everybody
throughout the entire extent of national territory. It must be
national in its support, that is, the nation must assist in carrying
the burdens of such a scheme, and not leave it altogether to the
locality or the state; and it must be national in its ideals. In other
words, it must have before itself as animating it, underlying it,
permeating it, crowning it, if you will, the idea of developing to
the highest possible extent the nation whose instrumentality it is.
We have thus far, with some exceptions which I shall note later,
depended for the evolution of our educational system largely upon
the good will and public spirit of private benefactors, God bless
their names! and upon the more or less haphazard inclination of
localities or states, spurred on in certain directions as they have
been by national legislation.

Now we cannot safely rely upon the desire of the local community
to work out an adequate educational system. Our history
has shown that there have been whole states, which for long
periods of time, have done absolutely nothing toward the development
of an adequate educational system. There are today communities
in every American state which, if they were permitted
by law to do so, would practically abolish even the elementary
school, which gives the modicum of opportunities, characteristic
of a backward, one-room country school. We must as a nation
have a definite policy looking toward the development of our
educational facilities, if we are within our day and generation
to see results at all commensurate with what would be perfectly
possible under the inspiration and working of such a system.
It is furthermore not fair to insist that the locality or even
the state shall bear the entire burden of such an educational
system. There is no function which has been thus far left or
delegated to the locality or to the state more truly national in
its scope than is education. The remotest school district in the
mountains of Georgia or Tenne-ssee may by great sacrifice support


### ---Economics-1911-0-17.txt---
a school in which some of the brighest children of their generation
shall be educated, children who on growing to maturity move
away into some other district, some other country, some other
state, and bring into the particular locality in which they may
finally settle all the advantages which this educational process
has brought to thenm. How many of our western cities have grown
strong because of able and educated men who have come into them
fromn the districts of New York or New England! How large a
part of the funds of the New England country schools for the last
fifty years have gone for the education of men whose contribution
to the locality in which they lived and to the nation came not
through New England at all, but through Illinois, and Wisconsin,
an(l Minnesota! In fact no one can tell what particular portion
of the country will profit most by the fact that the people in
some remote school district of Pennsylvania have taxed themselves
to the limit for the purpose of training in the best possible way
the children of that district. One may safely say that in all
probability the chief advantage would rather accrue to some other
district than to that which made the sacrifices. Now as long as
that is true, here is a logical, or ethical, reason, if you please, why
a part of the expense of the local school and the local school
system shall be borne by the nation.

This would be still truer of this comprehensive system of
national education which I have been discussing; for in proportion
as the expense increases, in proportion as the service of the school
becomes larger, in proportion as it serves a greater range of
human ability, does this principle which I have referred to hold
good, that the results of this training accrue, in all probability,
to the advantage of some other locality, some other state, some
other section of the country.

There is another reason already noted in the case of the South
why the nation must assist in the development and support of
the kind of system which I have been describing, and that is the
simple one that many of the localities, many of the states, cannot
of themselves raise the necessary funds to establish, develop, and
maintain such a system of education. There are many sections
of even the wealthiest portions of the country, the states north
of Mason and Dixon's line and east of the Rocky Mountains and
beyond the Cascade range, many localities which without the aid
of the state, in large measure, could not possibly undertake to
raise the funds by anv reasonable system of revenue open to them,


### ---Economics-1911-0-18.txt---
which would be necessary for this kind of an educational system.
To the federal government was assigned when it was organized
many of the most fruitful sources of revenue. To the states were
left many of the most burdensome items of expenditure. The
nation may, by a national revenue system, raise certain funds
far more easily, with less burden to the individual and less burden
to industry, than they can be raised either by the state or the community.
A reasonable distribution, therefore, of public burdens
between the state and the nation would call for such a readjustment
of the burdens of this educational function conceived in this larger
way.

The locality should do its part; the state should do its part;
the nation should do its part, toward raising funds necessary to
maintain this comprehensive system of national education.
There is another reason, an important one too, why the nation
should make its contribution to this educational function; and
that is that as education is in essence a national function, so
it ought to find a corresponding external recognition of that fact
in the national budget. In this wav education becomes the subject
of national discussion. It assumes gradually the relative importance
which it ought to occupy as a national issue in the minds of
men. And when the subject of education and what the nation
ought to do for it becomes the topic of congressional debate, and
when once a year the question is raised how much the federal
government is contributing or ought to contribute towards this
purpose, when the question is discussed how efficiently this money
is used, we gradually secure from the public that attention to the
importance of education as a fundamental national issue which
can comne in no other way. In England, France, Germany, and
now in all the other civilized countries including Russia, education
has become a national issue. The platforms of great political
parties are carefully examined by the thoughtful portion of the
community, to see whether they propose to provide adequate
assistance for the support of education; and in Germany practically
the same thing is effected by the fact that Prussia is so
overwhelmingly the German Empire that the discussion of educational
questions in the Prussian diet attract almost the same
attention that they would in the Imperial diet itself.
Now one may raise the question, what is a practical plan, and
what do you propose as a positive concrete step which may be
taken in this direction?


### ---Economics-1911-0-19.txt---
My proposition is very simple: that the federal government
shall grant to each state in the Union a sum of money equal to one
dollar per annum per head of its population for the support of
elementary and secondary education, that is, for the common
schools; and that this money shall be expended for the purpose
of strengthening what, for lack of a better term, we may call
"practical" education, that is, in agriculture, the mechanic arts,
the trades, domestic science, commerce and business, etc.
This would represent a contribution from the federal treasury
toward the support of elementary and secondary education of
approximately one hundred million dollars a year,-less than the
amount given to the building of a navy, far less than the amount
given to general military purposes, a sum which many people
would think so small as compared with the expense of such an
educational system as this that it would hardly be effective in a
large way.

Now the objections to a proposed grant of this kind are
obvious and potent. That they are really potent is evident enough
by the fact that in spite of more or less discussion of this subject
for fifty years past we have not yet made any verv great progress
toward bringing it to pass. The first argument which naturally
suggests itself is that education is not a federal function. If by
this is meant that the constitution of the United States does not
mention the support of elementary and secondary education as
one of the functions of the federal government, there would be,
of course, no discussion. If, however, is meant that this is not
properly a function of the federal government, that is surely
begging the question, since that is one of the points to be established.
I think the argument which I have made as to its necessity
for the national welfare, as to the national benefit from the
education of every individual child along the lines I have suggested,
and the impossibility of securing the benefits of this
education to the communities which have had to bear the expense,
is a satisfactory answer.

It may be said, moreover, that the federal government from the
very beginning of its existence has looked upon education as in
a peculiar sense something which the federal power must, within
the limits within which it was content to act, have a special regard
for. You will remember the famous declaration involved in the
ordinance of 1787 in which Congress declared that the promotion
of education was one of the fundamental purposes of government.


### ---Economics-1911-0-20.txt---
When later this territory was divided into states, the federal
government gave, from lands which belonged to it, large endowments
for the purpose of assisting the localities in the further
development of the schools and for the purpose of stimulating local
and state activity in the direction of developing and supporting
schools. The federal government continued later this same policy
of large endowment of education within the states by these grants
of federal land; and finally in the later legislation it did not content
itself with giving these lands to the states for the purpose of
education, but it made it a condition of admission of these states
to the Union that they should administer these funds for this
purpose and for no other.

I think it is beyond doubt that the policy of the federal
government, in thus granting to these newer states these federal
lands, has brought about the wonderful developments in popular
education which we have thus far achieved in this great Mississippi
Valley and in the states beyond the mountains. It was not merely,
as I have suggested before, because these lands were given to start
these schools, for in many cases the states in the first instance,
not being inclined to education, dissipated these funds, used them
for other purposes, and covered themselves with disgrace for the
flagrant way in which they disregarded the implicit pledges involved
in the acceptance of these lands for educational purposes.
But still more than the positive support which these lands gave
to common school education was the stimulus, was the example,
held continually before the minds of the community, set by the
federal government, of giving a portion and a considerable portion
of the public wealth to these purposes. It was a constant reproach
to the people of any state who dissipated these funds or
used them for other purposes, that the federal government had
set apart these lands out of the territory of the nation for public
education. The example was a constant challenge to the people
of every state that they should also give attention to these same
questions, and that as their wealth and strength increased they
should develop ever more strongly and completely this system of
popular education.

On the whole they have done so. The dav of squandering these
great endowments of education has passed away, though in every
state where this fund is great the public must safeguard its interest
with great watchfulness.

But the federal government was not content with giving these


### ---Economics-1911-0-21.txt---
lands to the states for elementary education. It went farther.
It gave to each of the states certain lands for the development of
hiigher education, the so-called college and seminary funds.
Finally, after long discussion and long agitation stretching
over more than thirty years, the federal government in the year
1862 granted to each state in the Union thirty thousand acres of
land for each senator and representative in the federal congress
for the purpose of establishing in each state a college for the
promotion of agriculture and the mechanic arts. This was
a grant not merely of public lands to the states within which the
public lands were located, but it was a grant to each state in the
Union permitting it to locate its lands where it best could under
the provisions of the law.

A generation passed away and the federal government appropriated
in cash to each state in the Union, March 2, 1887, the
sum of fifteen thousand dollars for the development of an agricultural
experiment station, this money to be paid out of the
proceeds of the sale of public lands. Only three years later,
August 30, 1890, the federal government returned to the same
proposition and then for the first time, with the utmost directness,
it appropriated money from the federal treasury for the support
of these colleges, out of funds not otherwise appropriated. And
thus, in form as well as in reality, the federal government has
committed itself to the proposition of supporting higher education
along practical lines, out of the federal treasury, within the
limits and under the auspices of the states.
This has turned out to be one of the greatest endowments
of higher education ever made by any government. And it has
turned out, I believe, to be one of the most beneficent series of
grants made by any country in the support of higher education.
And it has demonstrated several things. First, that a comparatively
small grant from the federal government for a given educational
purpose, so far from laming local effort or local initiative,
will greatly stimulate the efforts of localities and of states to
develop still further the education which is thus endowed.
According to the last report of the United States Bureau of
Education, sixty-nine institutions were receiving the benefits of this
congressional appropriation. The total appropriation made by
the federal government, exclusive of that for the agricultural
experiment stations, was somewhat less than two million dollars
per year. The total expenditure of these institutions was over


### ---Economics-1911-0-22.txt---
eighteen millions of dollars. In other words, for every dollar
given by the federal government the states have contributed,
roughly speaking, eight dollars in addition. A more striking illustration
of the stimulating effect of a wise grant of public money
for a definite purpose has, I think, rarely been afforded.
The contribution of this system of schools to the wealth of this
country is something which can hardly be estimated. It has first
of all trained the youth of the country for practical occupation
in the field of agriculture and engineering in such a wav as to
raise the level of the practice of these professions throughout the
United States.

It has also contributed very greatly in addition to our knowledge
of the conditions under which a productive agriculture and
a productive industry may be developed. It has been estimated
that the benefits of the discoveries emanating from these centers
of agricultural and engineering education has been such as to give
a positive increase in national wealth in every single year larger
than the total cost of all these institutions from the beginning to
the present.

Surely in the light of these facts it cannot be said that, practically
speaking, education has not been recognized as a function
of the federal government. As a matter of fact, it has been so
recognized to such an extent as to establish the principle beyond
question.

But after all, the federal government has done comparatively
little aside from the land grants-which, it is true, were an
important contribution-to stimulate, or aid in, the support of
elementary or secondary education. It is interesting to note that
this grant on the part of the federal government to higher education
was supplementary to the work which was doing in the states
themselves in this field. It did not undertake to endow the American
college of the traditional type or to endow professional
education. The men who were behind this measure seemed to
think that those particular phases of national education would
take care of themselves. The grant was made definitely for the
purpose of developing the practical side of higher education, of
training for callings and professions for which no training had
been, up to that time, provided in the educational system, either
public or private.

This was a wise measure. First of all it was a strategic move
to ask the federal government to give money in aid of education


### ---Economics-1911-0-23.txt---
in a field in which education had been sadly neglected and in which
it was not likely to be developed within any time which men could
foresee, unless the federal government gave this aid.
The same thing is today a strategic move, namely, we should
ask for this money from the federal government for the purpose of
developing the practical side of education in our elementary and
secondary schools. It should be strictlv a supplemental grant,
in aid of this work, not an attempt to assume the responsibility
of its entire support.

There is little doubt that if such a grant were made it would
stimulate the development of elementary and secondary education
along the lines thus far suggested, in a remarkable way and with
more astonishing results than have been accomplished in the field
of higher education. To accomplish this result of stimulation,
it is not necessary that the federal government should assume
the entire burden, or that it should do more than pay the comparatively
small part of what would ultimately be its share of the
expense.

One other objection, of course, to this kind of proposition
is very commonly made and occurs to everyone. Will not such a
scheme as this strengthen enormously the tendencies which are
making for centralization in the United States? Will it not
strengthen greatly the power of the federal government and diminish
still more the activity and energy and initiative of the commonwealths
themselves?

The proposition is that this money be given to the states to be
expended by them for this purpose. Of course it would be necessary
to utilize that amount of federal-I will not call it supervision
for it is not that-but federal bookkeeping which would
make sure that this money given for this purpose should be used
by the states for the purpose for which it is given. Otherwise
it should be left entirely to the states to manage, as the law has
left it to the states to determine the manner in which the funds
shall be expended which were granted for the colleges of agriculture
and the mechanic arts.

That such a measure would enlarge the view of the federal
government, so to speak; that it would bring into the range of
federal thought and federal activity the subject of education in a
large way, there is no doubt; and that is one of the strongest
arguments in its favor. If this appropriation of federal funds
in aid of elementary and secondary education were incidentally to


### ---Economics-1911-0-24.txt---
become so large as to diminish somewhat the amount of money
wastefully spent upon so-called internal improvements, or if it
would diminish or at least call a halt to the increasing expenditures
for the army and the navy, this to my mind would be an additional
reason for the adoption of such a plan.

You will remember that we had twenty-five years ago a similar
proposition before the federal government, known as the Blair bill,
under which it was proposed to distribute fifty millions of dollars
to the states in aid of elementary and secondary education. I
was a warm advocate of that proposition at that time and I
had a good illustration not long ago of how the deeds of men live
after them, when in an eastern paper some reference was made to
me as that crank who had urged the adoption of the Blair bill.'
I remember a conference which I had during that time with
Mr. Godkin, the editor of the New York NVation, one of the most
trenchant political writers of the time, and one who was opposed
to the appropriation contemplated by the Blair bill. He objected
that the national expenditure had already run to such limits as
to threaten national bankruptcy, and that the nation could not
undertake such additional expenditure of this sort without seriously
impairing national credit. I urged upon his attention an
entirely different veiw, namely, that we might determine, to some
extent, if we took hold of the matter in earnest, the distribution
of national expenditure. We might determine that some of it
should be spent for education instead of having it all spent for
war; but that the circumstances of the time indicated as clearly
as anything could that expenditure was bound to increase, and
no amount of effort was going to prevent a large and continuous
increase. We might, by taking thought, get those larger expenditures
made on behalf of important things, but if we did
not do that the expenditures would go for impossible harbors,


### ---Economics-1911-0-25.txt---
and still more impossible rivers; would go for manufacturing
cannon which woul(d rust out and become worthless before they
should ever be used; would be spent in inaugurating a "world
policy" which was sure to come if the nation continued so great
and the revenue continued to grow.

I believe the same thing.is true today. One of the arguments,
in my mind, for the assumption of a part of the burden of national
education by the federal government is that if the federal government
assists more fully in bearing the burdens of the nation as
it ought to, it will not be tempted to add increased burdens to
the nation by wild policies of world adventure, to which it will
be tempted in ever increasing extent, as national revenue and
therefore the possibility of such interference increases.
Friends, if we could secure the establishment in our day and
generation of such a comprehensive system of national education
-namely, one which would reach every child, white, black, yellow,
rich, and poor, and discover and call forth all his capabilitiesand
then a system which would go farther and privide for the
training of those abilities to the highest possible point, the nation
would enter upon a period of increase of national wealth the like
of which has never been seen in the history of the world. When all
the abilities of the community have an opportunity to be developed
and to be employed in the service of the community and in the
development of civilization; when the attention of the nation is
concentrated upon the development of its own people first of all,
and not upon world domination, not upon world influence, not even
primarily upon world service, but upon the development of its own
people and their capacities; then we shall see a new heaven and a
new earth; and when we set before ourselves as a nation the problem
of developing the bodies, the brains, and the character of our
children to the highest degree of perfection, all these other things
national wealth, world influence, and world power-shall be
added unto us.
 ## Economics-1912-0


### ---Economics-1912-0-01.txt---
is at a disadvantage as compared with many of the natural
sciences, in that it does not admit of laboratory experiments.
There are two considerations which support this assumption.
In the first place economics deals with human beings in their
social relations. It does not even deal with them as individuals.
It must therefore consider large groups, often whole states or
groups of states. The economist has neither the power to force,
nor the wealth to pay for, experiments upon nations, and if he
had, he would in many cases be deterred by moral scruples from
attempting them. Such a power might conceivably be exercised
by some oriental despot, and such persons have existed. Herod,
the son of Antipater, for example, if he had been as much interested
in sociology as he was in politics, would have made a good experimenter,
since he was not only able but quite willing to put to death
all of the children born within a certain time in Bethlehem.
Tughlak, the son of Muhammed, who ruled Northern India from
1324 to 1351, is in the same class. He has been described as
"learned, merciless, religious and mad." He was thus equipped
morally and mentally as well as politically for trying social experiments
on a large scale. And he did so. For we are told that he
"tried to replenish his treasury by the simple expedient of coining
brass in vast quantities and ordaining that it should be accepted
as silver."' He thus decreed that the King's brass should be
equal to the people's silver, and doubtless introduced among his
people the familiar phenomena of an inflated currency.
But Herod and Tughlak represent past types. The modern
economist, even if he were at the same time a great statesman,
could not deliberately experiment on a nation without running the
risk of being committed either to an insane asylum or a jail. And
yet the really important thing for the economist is that experiments
be tried, not that he try them himself, and in view of the
great cost of social laboratory work the economist is really fortunate
in having experiments tried for him without expense to


### ---Economics-1912-0-02.txt---
himself and without involving him in any legal or moral liability.
He cannot, it is true, like Herod, kill off the babies for the sake
of watching the effect upon population or wealth, but society is
constantly creating by law conditions which lead to the slauighter
both of innocents and of adults, by preventable disease and accident.
In many cases this needless increase of the death rate is
brought about, as it was in the time of Herod, because our office
holders are more intent upon keeping their jobs than upon earning
their salaries, and care more for politics than for sociology. We
lhave in a republic no despot to force his brass into circulation,
but what no despot would dare do to the people, the sovereign
people cheerfully do to themselves. When our country was
livided by a civil war, the hostile sections, though bitterly opposed
to each other in most questions, were yet alike in that each decreed
to make the government's paper equal to the people's gold, and
tried over again the experiment of an inflated currency which had
been tried by Tughlak, the son of Muhammed, and by many
others after him.

Thus we not only have experiments tried on a large scale in
modern states, but it is fair to say that, the more democratic the
country, the more ready on the whole it is to try experiments on
itself. Thus economic experimentation is not only possible, but
it is so common that it is hardly recognized as experimentation,
and the superabundant legislative activity of so many of our
advanced and radical commonwealths testifies to the mass of
work of this kind which is being performed gratuitously for the
economist.

There is a second argument against the possibility of economic
experimentation, which is perhaps mlore serious than the one
which has been considered, and it deserves more detailed treatment,
since it has had the support of eminent economists and
logicians. We are told that, even if experiments are tried by
modern governments, they are tried under such conditions as to
have no scientific value and to permit of no convincing conclusions.
This was the view of John Stuart Mill, at once a great
logician and a great economist, and it has been accepted by many,
if not most, of his successors. Mill, after enumerating the four
different methods of experimentation which are possible, concludes
that no one of them is adapted to the social sciences.
Take, for example, the methods of differences and of concomitant


### ---Economics-1912-0-03.txt---
variations. In order tu apply the former, we must have two
iinstances which tally in every particular except the one which is
the subject of inquiry. In order to apply the latter, we must have
a series of phenomena varying together.2
To prove the inapplicability of the method of differences, Mill
takes the example of a protective tariff and shows that it would
be quite impossible to find two nations which are exactly alike in
every respect excepting only in the presence or absence of such a
tariff.3

The method of concomitant variations he thinks equally impossible,
because every attribute of the social body is influenced by
innumerable causes. Hence the changes are the effects, not of a
single cause, but of the combination of many causes.4
We may concede, the difficulty of applying the method of
differences to test the effect of a protective tariff upon the general
wealth of nations, and yet recognize the possibility of experiments
if applied in a different way. It will be noticed that the question
which Mill asks is extremely vague. He inquires whether or not
a protective tariff is "favorable to national riches." That very
question itself requires a further explanation. What do we mean
by "national riches"? Do we take into account the mass of
wealth, or also its distribution, and if we take account of its mass
only, do we mean the total mass or the wealth per capita? In
order to apply the experimental method to economic questions,
we must apply it as it has been applied successfully to the natural
sciences. Now the greatest achievements in science have been
attained, not by putting such general questions as that instanced
by Mill, but by making the questions more and more specific, taking
into accounit only a limited number of phenomena at a time.
Thus while it may well be impossible to trace the effect of a
protective tariff upon the general wealth of the country, it is not
so difficult to trace its effect on the separate factors entering into
that wealth, such as the distribution of wealth between different
classes, the prices of protected commodities, the conservation of
the natural resources of the country, the growth of monopoly, etc.
In claiming for economic phenomena the value which we attach
to experimentation, it should be understood that we are not dealing


### ---Economics-1912-0-04.txt---
with mere observation as applied by the geologist, or the
astronomer, or the zoologist. Most economic experiments, thougl
they may not be made with an avowed scientific purpose, are yet
made on the basis of a definite theory, and the fact that this theory
often enjoys the complete confidence of the legislator does not
alter the fact that it is in its essence experimental, inasmuch as
its results are problematical.

Francis Place, for example, thought that the excesses of trade
unions were due to the restrictions of the law and that, if these
were removed, industrial peace would prevail. His agitation
brought about the repeal of the English combination laws in 1824,
but the great increase in strikes and other disturbances which
promptly followed completely disproved his theorv.
Not only do economic experiments rest as a rule upon some
hypothesis, but they often rest upon the theories of the economists
themselves, which, though they are often derided in the beginning,
slowly filter from the text-books through the magazines and newspapers
into the popular mind and influence public opinion, at
times, long after the economists thenmselves have ceased to believe
them. The economist has at least one attribute of divinity in that
his mills, like those of the gods, grind slowly.
John Stuart Mill advocated taxing the unearned increment in
the value of land as far back as 1848." But when the British
Parliament took the matter up sixty years later, the proposition
impinged upon the Tory mind with the painful shock of a new
idea.

In order to confirm the general view of the relations of the
economist to history which has just been expressed, let us look
specifically at the history of the United States.
The very conditions under which the North American continent
was settled emphasized economic interests above all others.
Such interests are potent in the history of all nations, but, if we
compare our country with Europe since the Middle Ages, we must
recognize that there are two forces very prominent in determining
the history of Europe, which were absent from our country.
One is dynamic ambition, which could not exist in a country
without kings or princes. The other is religious zeal. It is true
that the desire to worship God in their own way led the Pilgrims
first to settle in New England, but it is fair to say that we have


### ---Economics-1912-0-05.txt---
never had in our country those great disturbances which have
been caused by the wars of religion in Europe. Thus in the very
nature of the case economic considerations were predominant.
Another factor entering into European history, though it has
existed in our country, has also played a much less important part.
I refer to racial prejudice. It is true that we have not been free
from this curse, but we have fortunately thus far been spared
wars of races and great racial antagonisms, such as are constantly
arising to pit the Teuton against the Latin or against the Slav
in Europe.

Economic forces have had a wonderfully free play in our country
on account of its newness and, therefore, the absence of institutions
and traditions which resist a change in older communities.
Hence if we look at many of our early laws, such as the Massachusetts
Body of Liberties, we shall see that they deliberately
adopt certain economic ideals which they endeavor to make the
rule of conduct in the commonwealth.

If economic questions were prominent in the settlement of our
country, they have gained in prominence throughout our development.
Most of our political questions have turned upon economic
interests or economic ideals. I need but refer to the
slavery question with all of its many ramifications and complications,
resulting in the Missouri Compromise, the Fugitive Slave
Law, the Compromise of 1850, and the Civil War. I need but
refer to the controversies about the United States Bank, the
endless controversies about the tariff, the currency, the public
lands, and, more recently, regarding immigration, the organization
of labor, and the regulation of railroads and other corporations,
to show what an important part economic questions have
played in our internal development.

Other countries have, it is true, their own economic problems
which they are trying to solve by legislation. But the United
States has the transcendent advantage as an experiment station
of being composed of a group of states each of which legislates
upon a very large range of topics. To a certain extent it shares
this peculiarity with other modern federal states, whose constitutions
are more or less modelled upon ours, such as the Swiss
Republic, the German Empire, Canada, the Australian and South
African commonwealths. But we have the advantage over the
British colonies of a longer historv, and over the European nations


### ---Economics-1912-0-06.txt---
of fewer historical institutions and racial antagonisms, which
interfere with the strictly economic effects, while, as compared
with any one of these states, we have the advantage of a larger
number of units and tlherefore of a broader application of the
method of differences. Economicallv our country may be likened
to a hospital with forty-six general wards, each under separate
medical direction, and a large central ward for certain selected
cases, while a number of outlying pavilions and annexes under still
different systems are loosely connected with the central institution.
What an opportunity this offers the economist who will carefully
study the results of different kinds of treatment.
It is not only in official experimentation through legislation and
administration that our country is rich. It has also been the
happy hunting ground of social Utopias. In many cases it has
been their burying ground as well. Many of these, like the communities
of Mormons, Shakers, the Oneida Community, etc.,
have had a religious or moral ideal. Others, like Brook Farm,
New Harmony, the short-lived Ruskin Colony, the Fairview Colony
of Single Taxers, have been based upon strictly social or economic
ideals. Each of these communities represents on a small
scale a voluntary experiment in some method of combining labor
or of holding land, or of regulating marriage or something of the
kind. The ease with which such Utopias take root in our country
is illustrated by the fact tha-t within two years of the publication
of Looking Backwards more than 500 Bellamy Clubs with a
membership of about 03000 are said to have been established in
California alone.6

The organization of ideal communities which was so popular
in the first part of the nineteenth century seems to be succeeded
in the first part of the twentieth century by an equally enthusiastic
activity in the formation of societies designed to promote some
reform in our public policy. Some of them relate to taxation,
some to the regulation of the liquor traffic, some to labor legislation,
some to conservation, some to land tenure. Each one is a
stimulus urging the legislatures to test by actual experiment the
ideas for which it stands.

Apart from the idealists, we have a great mass of experiments
tried in the self-interest of those who themselves are engaged in


### ---Economics-1912-0-07.txt---
production. Our business men and lawyers have been peculiarly
fertile in evolving new forms of industrial organization. Our
public service corporations are testing new methods of adjusting
their charges, until the study of rates has become almost a science
by itself.7

Likewise the wage receivers are trying all kinds of methods of
improving their own condition. Every strike may be said to
represent an experiment relating directly to the important question
of economic theory: what determines the rate of wages.
In all of this experimenta ion we have the great advantage in
our country of carrying it on under conditions described by that
favorite phrase of the economist, "other things being equal." By
this I do not mean that we have been able to try different things
under absolutely identical conditions such as might be created in
a laboratory, but, as compared with the conditions under which
economic history has developed in other parts of the world, we
may claim for our own country that these experiments have been
conducted under three exceptionally favorable conditions:
(a) They fall within a limited period, so that no great or fundamental
changes have taken place in the cultural standards of
civilization or the mores of the people, such as characterized the
change from the miediaeval to the modern period in Europe.
(b) The experiments have been carried on within an area of
political uniformity, so that, although there are great differences
in latitude and lonigitude, climate and soil, between the different
parts of our country, yet the general legal and social environment
is very nearly the same.

(c) These experiments have been carried on among a people,
which, if not homogeneous in its ethnic makeup, is at least remarkably
uniform in its heterogeneity. Our country is like a good
mince pie; any one slice contains many different ingredients, yet
specimens from different parts of the whole are made up of
nearly the same ingredients, varying mainlv in their relative
prominence. Thus everywhere we have the common basis of the
English language and, with the exception of Louisiana, of English
law. Everywhere, too, we have a greater or less admixture
of different European races, of Africans, and occasionally of
Mongolians. While, of course, the percentage of the different


### ---Economics-1912-0-08.txt---
races varies in different parts of the country, it cannot be said
that any one race except the Anglo-Saxon exerts in any section
a purely racial predominance upon our institutions.8 Even in the
South in communities in which the blacks outnumber the whites
twenty-seven to one, the institutions are essentially Anglo-Saxon
and not Africani. While, therefore, we have not the absolute
control over our conditions that is enjoyed by the chemist, and
while the elements are vastly more complicated than those entering
into the ordinary laboratory experiment, we have conditions relati'
vely favorable for obtaining good results.
The temptation is strong to enumerate at least in part some of
the many fields of economic experimentation which are to be
found in the history of the United States, but to do so would
expand an address into a monograph and is, therefore, out of the
question. Some of these departments of study, such as those
relating to currency, to prices, to the rate of interest, have already
yielded valuable results to the investigator. Some of the more
practical questions, such as those relating to land tenure and the
methods of agriculture, as well as the purely governmental questions
involved in taxation and the management of public debt,
still remain to be studied intensively, in spite of a considerable
amount of work already put upon them. Less, on the whole,
has been done with the problems relating to labor, methods of
remuneration, the rates of wages, the efficiency of labor, etc. We
have tried many experiments in this department of economics.
We have had free labor, indentured labor, and complete slavery.
We have made a sudden transition from slavery to freedom, so
sudden as to bring with it many undesirable results, but perhaps
for that reason the more interesting as an economic experiment.
In the application of free labor we have likewise had experiences
of great value. We have had labor both organized and unorganized,
native born and foreign, and we have had trade unions of
many types and representing many stages of development.
Though considerable attention has been given to this topic, many
of its complicated problems have been barely touched upon. The
economist often inquires about the effect of labor on production,


### ---Economics-1912-0-09.txt---
but he seldom asks "What is the reaction of wealth upon the
efficiency of labor?"

According to the observations made by Mr. Frederick W.
Taylor, it does not pay to increase wages too rapidly. Indeed,
he has endeavored to give a mathematical expression to the possible
rate of economical increase and says that, if wages are
increased up to 60 per cent beyond the wages usually paid, this
increase tends to make the men more thrifty and better in every
way, but that when the rate goes beyond 60 per cent, many of
thenm tend to work irregularly and to become more lazy, shiftless,
extravagant, and dissipated.9

Economists have done little in the study of this phase of the
labor problem since Ricardo laid down the pessimistic view that
the population tends to increase with an increase in wages. Yet
it is a commonplace that, while an efficient population may be
seriously handicapped by the "niggardliness of nature," a country
with large natural resources may be likewise held back, because
the inhabitants either will not or can not utilize them, or because
they do not apply sufficient intelligence and energy in international
competition.

It is a matter of common observation that wealthy families in
our country often contain a number of parasitic members, that is,
members who derive a large income from society without rendering
any appreciable economic or public service in return.
These general and obvious facts need, however, to be examined
historically and statistically, in order to enable us to judge correctly
of the reaction of prosperity on the human mind, and of
the conditions which determine it. Intensive studies of heredity
in families, such as those made by Sir Francis Galton in England
and Dr. Frederick A. Woods and Dr. C. B. Davenport in our
country, are of great value, but need to be supplemented by a
study of the economic reactions. In the case of animal life, the
inherited characteristics are all important, and the skillful breeder
can reasonably expect to find the qualities of the parent in
the offspring. But if cows had the power to deliberately choose
a life of celibacy, we should find many a pedigreed Guernsey,
with ancestors in the advanced register, chewing her cud in idleness
on the hillside and yielding no milk whatsoever, just as we
often find sons of distinguished parents displaying real ability


### ---Economics-1912-0-10.txt---
when put to some academic test, and yet doing nothing to make
their lives either useful or distinguished, for lack of proper
incentive.

These parasitic members of the so-called "leisure class" should
be peculiarly useful specimens for economic study in our country,
because they are not under the social pressure of the feudal
system, inherited in the older countries of Europe from the time
when wealth meant land ownership, and land ownership of necessity
involved public duties. Many of this class in our country
walk our streets, eloquent but unconscious arguments for socialism,
terrible examples for the moralist, living texts for sermons,
rich material for the problem novelist, but still comparatively
neglected by the economist, the sociologist, and the statistician.
We gather the budgets of workingmen, but not of club men; we
collect the statistics of involuntary unemplovment but not of
voluntary idleness; our study of social conditions on the East
Side has not been extended to the West Side. And yet how can
we understand the causes of national decadence, that great and
perennial question of history as well as of practical politics, unless
we unflinchingly examine its phenomena during the growing
period?

Parasitism is, however, but a part of the general subject of
economic pathology, which has been altogether too much
neglected by economists in the past, and which can certainly never
be studied by the deductive method. Or, if we pass bevond the
strictly economic questions to those broader questions of social
policy, what vast materials have we in our country bearing upon
the mixture of races. What a splendid opportunity to test the
tl)eories of the philosophical anarchist, who holds that the ills of
society are due to the law, and who may study in the history of
Alaska the effect of allowing a commonwealth to grow up almost
without law.

It is not possible at this time to enlarge upon these topics.
Some defects in our economic laboratorv should, however, be
pointed out. In the United States experimentation is constantly
interrupted by the power of our courts to nullify laws. Thus
experiments may be overthrown on grounds which are quite
extraneous to their essence. It is as if a biologist were to suddenly
find his laboratory invaded and wrecked by an over-zealous
anti-vivisectionist.


### ---Economics-1912-0-11.txt---
The economist has the further disadvantage that the subjects
of his study and experiment are men like unto himself with
opinions, emotions, and voices. Hence every experiment is accompanied
by a babel of sound, which seems to confuse the whole
subject. The physiologist, working in his quiet laboratory, is
apt to think the very subject-matter of economics ill adapted
to scientific study. If the human body were the seat of a republic
in which all of the microbes that infest it and the ferments that
endanger it were vocal, the investigator would have to put wax in
his ears to keep his mind free from disturbance. Imagine the
bacilli of consumption and typhoid holding periodical elections to
see which should for the next four years control the state of health
of the patient, with a lot of insurgents in the shape of pyaemia and
dyspepsia striving, if not to govern, at least to hold the balance
of power!

Another equally serious defect lies in the inadequacy of our
records. The amount of economic material buried in the archives
of our states is enormous. The material buried in the records of
corporations, of labor unions, of voluntary societies, may be even
greater. The mere index of state economic documents which is
being compiled for the Carnegie Institution of Washington fills a
portly quarto for each one of the older states. The cream of
contemporary evidence bearinig upon the history of Industrial
Society in the United States, recently published by Professor Commons
and his collaborators, fills eleven volumes. But in spite of
this vast material, we still have to contend with the imperfection
of many of our records and with the difliculty of accurate mensuration.
Professor Dewey, in his able presidential address of two years
ago, enlarged upon the inaccuracies of economic observation, and
all serious economists must recognize the truth of what he then
said. But it is the task of the economnist to overcome difficulties,
not to shrink from them, and he can best do this by helping his
successors to obtain a trustworthiness in their material which is
not always available for him. It is encouraging that the federal
authorities, and the state governments as well, are relying more
and more upon trained economists to record economic facts in the
form of statistics and monographic studies. But we should remember
that such studies are not the only agency of a governmental
kind to which we must turn. Every law affecting economic
relations must be treated as an experiment, the recording of whose


### ---Economics-1912-0-12.txt---
results should be provided for in the law itself. How much futile
discussion and how many errors would be avoided if we were able
from year to year to put our hands on the results of the operation
of laws bearing upon economic relations! Just as modern hospitals
not only provide physicians and nurses but also laboratories
and records, so every legislature should have its economic annex,
in which not merely the text of laws but also their results may be
made available both for the legislature and for the student.
The conception of history as an economic laboratory is quite
different from the common conception of economic history. History
is in the main descriptive. It seeks to give us a picture
of the past. If it goes beyond that, it seldom attempts more thail
to trace general causes or to lay down a philosophy of history or
a theory of historical evolution. The economic utilization of
history is almost the antithesis of the economic interpretation of
history, since one is seeking a law of history and the other laws
of economics. The economist undoubtedly owes a debt of gratitude
to historians, and particularly to economic historians, for the
material which they have put at his disposal, and the brilliant
address on "Social Forces in American History," delivered in
1910 by the President of the American Historical Association, is
an indication of the increasing interest which historians are taking
in social and economic elements. The contrast, however, between
their point of view and the economic point of view cannot
be better illustrated than by quoting from this address. Professor
Turner says that he has undertaken his survey for two purposes:
"First, because it has seemed fitting to emphasize the significance
of American development since the passing of the frontier and,
second, because in the observation of present conditions we may
find assistance in our study of the past."' 4 The economist, while
fully appreciating the value and the necessity of studying history
from this point of view, must yet go a step farther and must use
the records of the past as a means of disclosing the operation of
economic forces.

The difference between description and science may be illustrated
by an example taken from the history of physics. The
lamp hanging in the cathedral of Pisa might be described in
every artistic detail by a traveler. The history of the designer


### ---Economics-1912-0-13.txt---
and the story of how it came to be placed there might be told in
full, without adding in the least to our knowledge of physics. It
took the mind of a Galileo, at once analytical and constructive,
to recognize in the apparently meaningless oscillations of the lamp
a constantly acting force, and thus to discover the law of the
pendulum. So the economist must recognize beneath the events
of history the constantly acting economic impulses in the mind
of man.

This view of economic history as a series of experiments is not
in conflict with the evolutionary conception of history. Indeed
it is really necessary to explain it rationally, for, unless we are
willing to accept a blind fatalism, according to which history moves
on without being controlled by human volition, we must recognize
that what seems to us the orderly development of institutions is
rational and orderly, precisely because men have been constantly
trying new expedients and have deliberately retained those institutions
and practices which stand the test of experience. The very
expression "survival of the fittest" implies in human history a
constant testing of new variants, as it does in the animal world,
with this difference, however, that in the animal world the changes
are brought about by the so-called forces of nature, which is
another way of saying that, like Topsy, "they just growed," while
in history most of the changes have been produced by a conscious
effort of the human mind to bring about results. This is none
the less true because few individuals at the time have a sufficiently
broad grasp of what is happening and a sufficiently profound
knowledge of the world to know whither they are tending.
Economic science, after a period of public favor in which its
generalizations enjoyed considerable confidence, seems to have
gone through two rather distinct phases. When it found itself
unable to grapple with many of the problems of the day, it was
derided as the "dismal science" by impatient reformers. More
recently, since it has begun to interest itself more in practical
questions, it seems to be enjoying a popularity, especially in the
United States, which is not without its dangers. It attracts large
classes in our universities; it is being studied in our theological
schools and by our churches; large sums of money are being
spent by our governments in the interest of economic investigations.
The economist must be on his guard against allowing this
present popularity to encourage dilettantism. Our age is growing


### ---Economics-1912-0-14.txt---
more and more critical. The business world is applying rigorous
tests to ascertain results. The educational world is studying
methods of efficiency. The economist will be liable to go through
another period of discredit, unless he realizes that he must apply
to his study the patience, the exactitude, the devotion to truth by
which the great conquests of natural science have been obtained.
He needs all of these qualities in a larger degree even than the
student of nature, because of the long period through which his
observations have to extend, and the great complexity of the
phenomena with which he is dealing. But if he can apply these
qualities in the realization that the world of economic change is
his laboratory, and that it is his task to interpret its lessons, he
will have his reward, in helping to solve the great human problems
which have vexed mankind since the dawn of history.
 ## Economics-1913-0


### ---Economics-1913-0-01.txt---
The question posed by Malthus refuses to be ignored. Again
and again the nations are forced to give ear to it. The celebrated
essay in 1798 marked the boundary between two eras of
thought on this question. Before that a large and increasing
population was generally favored; since that date it has never
ceased to be looked upon by some with doubt and with fear.
The contrast between the two eras, however, is less in respect
to the judgment of results than in respect to the criterion by
which those results are to be measured. Before Malthus the
criterion was the prosperity of the sovereign and of the ruling
classes; thereafter it became the welfare of the increasing masses.
Unwittingly, but none the less truly, Malthus set before the eyes
of men a new picture of the humble unit of population. Instead
of the man with the hoe, patient taxpayer and soldier of the king,
frugal workman contributing with his teeming fellows to swell
the rents of landlords and the profits of employers, Malthus
helped the world to see the human individual, striving to maintain
a family and to win the joys of life, but finding the very number
of his fellows an obstacle in the way toward these ends. Before
Malthus population was a question either of political or of commercial
economy; with him it began to be a question of social
economy.

These statements appear paradoxical when one! recalls that the
first purpose of Malthus was to dispel the illusory hopes of social
perfection. His proposition that population has a fateful tendency
to outstrip the production of food was used to condone the
patent evils of existing society. His doctrine became the stock
argument to discourage plans of social betterment. This may
all be granted. Our purpose is not to praise Malthus but to appreciate
him. In the perspective of more than a century neither
the conscious purposes of men nor the immediate applications of
their teachings are usually seen to have determined their real
influence. Malthus had in some ways a, narrow outlook, and
his often confused thought gave false implications to the main


### ---Economics-1913-0-02.txt---
truth he brought to public attention. Yet he was a man of
gentle spirit, far from harsh and unsympathetic. Approaching
the question solely with the purpose of the student without political
or commercial bias, he became the agent in advancing, if
not in originating, the humanitarian and democratic treatment
of the population problem. That problem is to determine the
best proportion between the number of inhabitants and the area
and resources of a land, judged with reference to the abiding
welfare of the great mass of the people of the nation.
English population doctrine in the 19th century.
When Adam Smith wrote, he could cite many evidences of the
rise of real wages during the course of the eighteenth century.
Twenty-two years later Malthus wrote in a time of war, of nearfamine,
of increasing population, and of decreasing prosperity for
the masses. The forty years that followed were a period of
misery unequalled in modern times for the working classes of
Britain. In this time in England the dominant opinion accepted,
the Malthusian doctrine as the explanation of what was happening,
and derived from it conservative and pessimistic conclusions
as to the popular welfare. Some social corollaries of the doctrine
were however drawn by James Mill and other Radicals and
were restated by J. S. Mill in his Political Economy in 1848. He
showed the benefits to the laborers in the limitation of their numbers,
whereas Malthus had never ceased to regard population as
well-nigh fatalistically determined. By a turn of fate the circumstances
of that very time largely robbed of practical interest
Mill's views on the subject. Things had already taken a turn for
the better. The worst evils of the factory system were in course
of being remedied, the sanitation of cities was improving, the
laborers were better organized, the rate of growth of population
was slackening, and the repeal of the Corn Laws in 1846 had
prepared the way for the cheapening of the food of the people
even in a period of rising wages following the gold discoveries.
Cooperating with these influences, the improvement of transportation
was opening up new sources of food supplies on virgin soils
and making them available to the markets of western Europe. In
the following half century the real wages and general welfare of
the masses, alike in western Europe and in the United States,
were to advance almost steadily. This whole movement was well
under way when Mill was writing. In such a period as that, the


### ---Economics-1913-0-03.txt---
Malthusian doctrine in any version could not but appear to the
practical eye to be either false or futile. It lost its usefulness
as a conservative argument in support of existing institutions, for
the best argument was the unmistakable progress of the masses.
It lost its hostile character to the champions of radical change.
American views on population.

American views on population were from the first unfriendly
to the Malthusian doctrine. It appeared in the earlier textbooks
of English origin or written under English influence, and as a
mere classroom abstraction it was given a small measure of
curious attention. But in any of its forms it involved an opinion
adverse to an unrestrained increase of population, whereas the
conditions in America made such an idea appear false as theory
and harmful in practice. A growing population was favorable to
the interests alike of landowners, of active business men, of the
rival sections, and of the national government. There resulted
from this economic situation a peculiarly American optimism on
the subject. Density of population as an influence favorable to
the division of labor and to the economies of production in manufacture
was looked upon as in itself an efficient cause in increasing
the per capita income. One type of this optimism, exemplified by
Henry George, denied on principle that population ever could
increase too much. Another type, represented by Henry Carey,
held that population in fact was not likelv to increase too much in
America. The national bias often led to crediting to American
character all of the benefits resulting from exceptional natural resources
combined with relative scarcity of population. This bias
and this reasoning still survive among us today.
Rapid settlement of the United States.

Students of American economic conditions are familiar with the
series of shaded charts in the Census volumes on population showing
by decades the extension of the settled area since 1790 and its
gradually increasing density. As one studies the earlier of these
charts one can see how the blank spaces on the maps of that day
must have aroused the imagination and the hopes of men. There
lay whole empires of land almost untenanted and calling to be used.
Decade by decade for a hundred years the frontier extended at a
hardly slackening rate while the density increased on the settled
area, until abruptly, about 1890, the process ended or changed


### ---Economics-1913-0-04.txt---
its nature. The chart for 1900 shows little alteration in its outline
from that for a decade earlier. The increase of population in
the decade had been thirteen millions, but of these, eight millions
had been added to the urban and only five millions to the rural
population. In the following decade, from 1900 to 1910, the
increase was sixteen millions, of which twelve millions were added
to the urban and but four millions to the rural population. Dividing
our national history since 1790 into four periods, each of
thirty years, it is seen that in the first the density per mile
increased .7 of an inhabitant, in the second 2.4 inhabitants, in the
third 9, and in the fourth 14. Thus the increase in the number
per square mile has gone on at an accelerating rate, and was
twenty times as fast in the last as in the first period. As an index
of the demands which increasing population makes upon resources,
these figures are more truly significant than are the absolute numbers
of people or the percentage of increase by decades; for they
show how many additional inhabitants must find employment,
materials, and food on the available area. This means greater
intensiveness of utilization. The cumulative additions are now
made on an area nearing, or already past, the point of maximum
advantage to the masses of the nation.

Disappearance of the frontier.

By 1890 the habitable agricultural area of the United States
had not been completely occupied, but the frontier of fertile lands
ready for man's use had at length been all but attained. Suddenly
was unmasked the true character of those great, uncolored areas
shown on the map. Deserts they are, for the most part, deserts
they must ever remain. Nature had no more free gifts to distribute
to the prodigal children of America. She would grant still
some new arable fields, but only for the price of toil and patient
art. Our increasing population must thenceforth find its livelihood
in the more intensive cultivation of the settled areas. We
had been rapidly losing those economic advantages which had
distinguished us from the older, more densely settled countries. A
new ecomonic situation confronted our people.
Economic results did not long delay their appearance. In the
nineties of the last century the wave of popular prosperity at
length attained its crest. Some great forces lifting wages throughout
Christendom despite any counteracting effects from increasing
population seem at last to have spent themselves. Cheap food


### ---Economics-1913-0-05.txt---
from America had been a boon to the European workman as well
as to the American. The year 1896 marked the lowest American
prices in recent decades for food and for farm products. The year
1898 was that of maximum export of foodstuffs from the United
States. Since 1896 food and other farm products have almost
steadily advanced in price at a more rapid rate than general
prices; since 1898 exports of foodstuffs from the United States
have less steadily, but none the less surely, declined. In the past
twenty years the general progress in science and the technical arts
has been phenomenal. It is the accepted economic belief that the
trend and effect of such changes is favorable to the real wages of
labor. The last twenty years, therefore, should have been a period
of rapidly rising wages had not this technical progress been offset
by some powerful opposing forces. Why have real wages risen so
slowly or even fallen? In part no doubt the explanation may be
found in the fact that when the general scale of prices is rising
wages move more tardily. In large part the explanation must
be found in the fact that we have passed the point of diminishing
returns in the relation of our population to our resources. The
growth of population is serving to neutralize for the masses of
the people the gains of technical progress. It is high time to revise
the optimistic American doctrine of population.
Extravagant esti'mates of future population.
The public is accustomed to the estimates of enormous population
possible on the present area of this country. These estimates
express to many, perhaps to most Americans, not only the possible
but also the inevitable and desirable increase. They ask: why
should not an area almost equal to that of Europe support 400,-
000,000 instead of one fourth that number? We have little more
than thirty inhabitants per square mile. France and AustriaHungary
have each a population over six times as dense, Switzerland
eight times, Germany and Italy ten times, the Netherlands
fifteen times, and Belgium twenty-two times. We have but to equal
Italy to support a population of a billion. We have but to equal
Belgium to support two and a quarter billions. But if we could
conceivably support such a future population on the present area
it would be in what manner, with what gain to civilization and at
what cost to the popular welfare?

Take the German Empire as a standard of comparison. Despite
the great material advances in Germany of late, the real wages of


### ---Economics-1913-0-06.txt---
the working people are much below those in America. Who would
suggest that with the conditions of popular thought in America
we could calmly contemplate the decline of wages and of the standard
of living among us toward those of the German masses today?
The Swiss in their mountainous land with a population four
fifths as dense as that of Germany are achieving quite as wonderful
a result. Only a marvel of patient industry enables the Swiss to
draw their livelihood from such an area. Watch the Swiss peasant
at his work and you may understand. The cattle stand in the
stable while the peasant cuts their food and brings it to them lest
they may trample down the precious grass. Man's labor is less
valuable there than are the uses of that little patch of land. In
the haying season the harvester clings with one hand to the steep
mountain side, cutting the grass by the handful and piling it in
little bunches loaded down with stones to keep it from blowing
away, until it can be carried down into the valley on the backs
of men and women. That is what such a density of population
means, translated into terms of human labor.
Shall Italy be our population-ideal? A recent well-known traveler'
from America reports the ordinary food of the laborer in
Sicily as consisting of "a piece of black bread and perhaps a bit
of soup of green herbs of some kind or other." "For days or
months the peasants live on almost any sort of green thing they
find in the fields, frequently eating it raw just like the cattle."
Consequences of further rapid increase.

In the light of such facts, the flights of speculative statistics
regarding the possible increase of our population evidence a forgetfulness
of economic principles and a recklessness of economic
consequences. To force production very fast or far on a given
area entails some notable results. Cultivation must become in
part more intensive, with hand labor, in part more expensive, with
a larger investment in equipment on larger farms.
We have heard much of late the appeal, Back to the land! As
a plan to be followed by masses of men with the hope of relieving
the pressure of population it is vain. Every time one pair of
hands is added to the agricultural population, three more mouths
are added to the city population waiting to consume the products.
America has no exclusive knowledge of mechanical inventions
and no exclusive claim to their use. They are internationally
Boker T. Washington, in The Man Farthest Down, 1912.


### ---Economics-1913-0-07.txt---
patented and for sale. Whoever finds it profitable may use them.
If they are used less in other countries it is because the work can
be done miore cheaply by hand under their conditions. The general
level of the use of machinery is largely fixed by the relations
between population and resources, and not by any mysterious
racial talent for machinery. It is the density of population that
mainly explains the contrast in this regard between the people of
Europe on the one hand, and on the other those of the same races
in America, Canada, and Australia.

Popular welfare in America is already threatened. To preserve
the favorable relation of population to resources and to control
in some measure the fate and fortunes of the children of this and
future generations the two most important means possible are:
conservation of national resources, and retarding the rate of increase
of population.

>Seed of a conservation policy.

For the conserv ation movement, that sadly belated attempt to
check national prodigality, let us speak only words of approval.
But we must recognize its limitations. As to minerals, it only
cdelays their inevitable, final exhaustion. At the present rate of
increase of the use of our stores, iron ore will be exhausted in
thirty years, petroleum in ninety years, and coal in one hundred
fiftv years. If, however, the population became stationary, the
periods of possible use would be enormously extended. In the
reclamattion of soil by drainage and irrigation the outlook is that
about 15 per cent may thus be added ultimately to the area in
farms, representing at the most 40 per cent addition to the present
food production by present methods. Even when all this has
been accomplished at much cost it provides barely for two decades
of increase of our population at the present rate, and by 1930 the
natioiial demand for food will again be in the same relation to the
productive area that it now is.

The hope is ever with us that improvements in agricultural
methods will offset the influence of the increase of population. We
rightly speak of the wonders of the new agriculture; but these
improvements fast crowding upon each other in the past two
decades have not even kept the cost of food from increasing in
terms of the common man's wage. Shall we then base an economic
policy on the assumption of much greater improvements which as
yet are only in the realm of imagination? Undoubtedly the development


### ---Economics-1913-0-08.txt---
of water power will retard the trend toward higher
prices of coal; forestry will eventually grow lumber enough to
meet the greatly curtailed demand at higher prices; but, given a
population steadily increasing at anything like the present rate,
and real wages in America must decrease in terms of food, clothing
and fuel, and all the commodities dependent on wood, iron,
copper, and other primary materials. The steady increase alone
of population will offset the popular benefits of the new miracles
of industrial progress.

Declining rate of natural increase.

The percentual rate of increase of population in the United
States has shown a general downward trend since the Civil War.
Before 1860 it had been steadily near 35 per cent each decade;
between 1860 and 1890 it ranged between 30 and 23 per cent;
and in each of the last two decades it has been about 21 per cent.
This downard trend has been tardily following a declining birth
rate. Race suicide, however, is very far from being an imminent
peril for the nation as a whole. The real occasion for disquietude
is that this phenomenon is so largely correlated with education and
with eminent attainment. In many families the birth rate is much
too high for the welfare of the parents, of the children, and of
the community. Recent studies among city populations have
demonstrated that as the number of births in a family passes a
mnoderate limit the mortality increases inordinately.
Our population increased between 1900 and 1910 nearly sixteen.
million people. A much slower rate of growth would realize the
common prediction of a quarter billion in another century, and a
half billion in two centuries. So far as these figures are based on
forecasts of "natural increase" (exclusive of immigration), they
may prove to be largely overestimated. Changes in public opinion,
in social standards, in the means of communication and of education,
in industry, and in family relations, are in rapid progress.
Affecting wider and wider circles, these influences promise to
strengthen greatly the forces making for volitional control of population.
The earlier applications of the doctrine of eugenics
probably will be to control the increase of imental and of physical
defectives. These forces, if not neutralized, will rapidly reduce thne
rate of increase.


### ---Economics-1913-0-09.txt---
The qwestion of immigration.

In the decade ending 1910, but for immigration, the rate of
increase of the total population would have been much less instead
of somewhat greater than that of the preceding decade. But in
1910 there were over three million more foreign-born persons in
the country than were here ten years earlier. One fifth of the
increase in population consisted in foreign-born, and another fifth
of their children born in America. In each of the six years preceding
the census nearly a million immigrants arrived. All previous
records were exceeded. The continuing possibilities of immigration
as a source of contributions to our population in thle fuiture
are enormous.2 As migration is made easier by the spread of information
and by the improvement of the means of travel, the lure
of a higher wage becomes more and more effective. There is no
limit to this motive, except the meager cost of steerage passage,
until real wages in America are leveled down to those of the most
impoverished populations permitted to enter our ports.
The current objections to immigration are mainly based on the
alleged evil effects to the political, social, and moral standards of
the community. It is often asserted that present immigration
is inferior in racial quality to that of the past. Whatever be the
truth and error mingled in these views, we are not now discussing
them. Our view is wholly impersonal and without race prejudice.
If the present immigration were all of the Anglo-Saxon race, were
able to speak, read and write English, and had the same political
sentiments and capacities as the earlier population, the validity
of our present conclusions would be unaffected.
The open-door policy, then and now.

When our policy of unrestricted immigration is thus opposed
to the interests of the mass of the people, its continuation in a
democracy where universal manhood suffrage prevails, is possible
only because of a remarkable complexity of ideas, sentiments.
and interests, neutralizing each other and paralyzing action. The
American sentiment in favor of the open door to the oppressed


### ---Economics-1913-0-10.txt---
of all lands is a part of our national heritage. The wish to share
with others the blessings of freedom and of economic plenty is the
product of many generations of American experience. The open
door policy had partly a political basis: a growing population in a
young and sparsely settled country gave greater security on the
frontier of settlement and greater strength against foreign enemies.
The policy had, however, mainly an economic basis: land
was here a free good on the margin of a vast frontier. Most
citizens benefited by a growing population. Let it not be accounted
cynicism to recognize in this national self-interest the source of a
generous sentiment toward the incoming stranger. That sentiment,
truly generous, now lingers after its real cause has disappeared.
It impels to an unthinking liberality to the alien while
sacrificing the heritage of the workers of America; it makes the
citizen with humane ideals the misguided ally of commercial greed.
The open door policy is vain to relieve the condition of the masses
of other lands. Emigration from overcrowded countries, with
the rarest exceptions, leaves no permanent gaps. Natural increase
quickly fills the ranks of an impoverished peasantry. If America
with futile hospitality continues to welcome great numbers from
countries with low standards of living, she can but reduce the level
of her own prosperity while affording no permanent relief to the
overcrowded lands. Nations under bad governments must find
relief through the reform of their own political conditions. Lands
whose people are in economic misery must improve their own industrial
organization, elevate their standards of living, and limit
their numbers. If they go on breeding multitudes which find an
unhindered outlet in continuous migration to more fortunate
lands, they can at last but drag others down to their own unhappy
economic level.

The pride of immigrants and of their children, sometimes to the
second and third generations, is another strong force opposing
restriction. Immigrants, having become citizens, are proud of the
race of their origin, and resent restriction as a reflection upon
themselves and their people. One may admire the loyalty and
idealism here manifested, while regretting that these sentiments and
arguments serve to distract attention from the real problem to
minor and irrelevant incidents.

Public welfare or private profits.

A strong commercial motive operates in the most influential
class of employers in favor of the continuance of immigration.


### ---Economics-1913-0-11.txt---
From the beginning of our history, proprietors and employers
have looked with friendly eyes upon the supplies of comparatively
cheap labor coming from abroad. This has been a potent factor
in many of our political and economic policies. The early comers
to America strove in every way to obtain a cheap labor force
through immigration. Large numbers of immigrants or of their
children have been able soon, in the conditions of the times, to
become proprietors and employers. Thus was hastened the peopling
of the wilderness. The interest of these classes harmonized
to a certain point with the public interest; but likewise it was in
some respects in conflict with the abiding welfare of the whole
nation. It encouraged much defective immigration from Europe
and led to the fateful introduction of slavery from Africa. A
small planter class, heedless of the future, provided for its own
ease, but it left to posterity a dark and bloody heritage which
still remains the greatest threat to the American democratic experiment.


The immigration from Europe has furnished an ever changing
group of workers moderating the rate of wages which employers
otherwise would have had to pay. The continual influx of cheap
labor has aided in imparting values to all industrial opportunities.
A large part of these gains have been in the trade, manufactures,
and real estate of cities as these have taken and retained an ever
growing share of the immigrants. Successive waves of immigration,
composed of different races, have been ready to fill the ranks
of the unskilled workers at meager wages. This continuous inflow
has in many industries come to be looked upon as an indispensable
part of the labor supply. Conditions of trade, methods of manufacturing,
prices, profits, and the capital value of the enterprises
have become adjusted to the fact. Hence results one of those
illusions cherished by the practical world when it identifies its own
profits with the public welfare. Without immigration, it is said,
the supply of labor would not be equal to the demand. It would
not at the present wages. Supply and demand have reference to a
certain price. At a higher wage the amount of labor offered and
the amount demanded will come to an equality. This would temporarily
curtail profits, and other prices would, after readjustment,
be in a different ratio to wages. Such a prospect is most
displeasing to the commercial world, quick to see disaster in a disturbance
of profits, slow to see popular prosperity in rising wages.


### ---Economics-1913-0-12.txt---
Abnormal labor conditions.

The labor supply coming from countries of denser population
and with low standards of living creates, in some occupations, an
abnormally low level of wages and prices. Children can not be
born in American homes and raised on the American standard of
living cheaply enough to maintain at such low wages a continuous
supply of laborers. Many industries and branches of industry in
America are thus parasitical. A condition essentially pathological
has come to be looked upon as normal. It is the commercial
ideal which imposes itself upon the minds of men in other circles.
The new immigration has recently been described by an author
who combines wide knowledge of the facts with keen sympathy for
the immigrant. He says :2 "The past industrial development of
America points unerringly to Europe as the source whence our
unskilled labor supply is to be drawn. ... America is in the
race for the markets of the world; its call for workers will not
cease." Yet a few pages further he must say: "All wage earners
in America agree that it is not as easy to make a living today as
it was twenty years ago, and the dollar does not go as far now as
it did then. The conflict for subsistence on the part of the wage
earner is growing more stern as we increase in numbers and industrial
life becomes more complicated, and the fact must be faced
that the vast army of workers must live more economically if
peace and well being are to prevail." Here is our argument: increase
in numbers is making the conflict for subsistence more stern.
But how different the conclusion!

The opposition to restriction.

What tremendous forces are combined in favor of a policy of
unrestricted immigration: sentiment and business, generosity, selfishness,
laborers, employers. All men are prone to view immigration
in its details, not in its entirety. They see this or that individual
or class advantage, not the larger national welfare. The
interests of capitalists and of the newly arriving immigrants are
abundantly considered; the interests of the mass of the people now
here are overlooked.

The depressing effect of the ever present and ever renewing
supply of immigrant labor upon wages, appears most clearly at
the time of wage contests, and often seems to be the most important


### ---Economics-1913-0-13.txt---
aspect of the question. The law against contract labor does
not check the great stream of those guided by friends to a "job."
If immigration were suddenly stopped in a period of normal or of
increasing business, wages in many occupations would at once
rise, and that, without the aid of strikes or arbitration. This
would affect most those occupations which now present the most
serious social problems, in mines, factories, and city sweat shops.
In some small measure the war in the Balkan States, by recalling
many men for service, has had this influence. Organized labor
thinks most of these immediate effects. Commonly labor's protest
is expressed in terms of the untenable "lump of labor" theory of
wages. "Every foreign workman who comes to America" is believed
to take "the place of some American workman." The error
in this too rigid conception of the influence of new supplies of
labor need not be argued before an audience of economists. But in
the light of the doctrine of population there is no mistaking the
influence of continually increasing numbers in gradually and permanently
depressing the whole plane of wages. It is generally
assumed that when the immigrants and their children become
Americanized and raise their standard of living their presence no
longer has any effect in depressing wages below what they otherwise
would have been. Indeed it is tacitly assumed that the law of
increasing returns operates as population becomes denser, and
that the general prosperity is enhanced by the mere growth of
numbers. This idea was measurably true so long as national
growth was one of extension into unoccupied areas, and the
average density of population was low. It ceases to be true
whenever the ideal point of equilibrium between population and
resources has been attained. The territorial distribution of immigrants,
their training in the English language, and their adoption
of American standards of living, can not change a mathematical
fact.

Conditions of progress.

John Stuart Mill, in discussing the future of society when population
might be expected to have ceased increttsing, employed an
already current term, the "stationary state." The phrase is
hardly felicitous for, as he explained, this does not mean a society
stationary in the industrial arts and in mental, moral, and social
culture. Indeed it was just such a condition of a stationary
population that he deemed the ultimate ideal when once that degree


### ---Economics-1913-0-14.txt---
of density had been attained which made possible the highest
level of the general welfare. The theory of evolution as applied to
social progress has suggested that a certain pressure of conflicting
and thwarted desires is required to keep a people industrious,
inventive, and progressive. The crude version of the theory implies
the necessity of competition on the plane of physical want
resulting from the pressure of population. A subtler conception
would place this competition on the higher plane of developing
desires made possible by industrial advance, political democracy,
popular education, and a widening horizon of thought. A large
part of our people have attained that stage now, and the cultural
circle is ever widening. The spur of progress consists of the felt
limitations of incomes, relative to expanding desires, rather than
in the pangs of hunger. Once the spur of progress was objective,
now it is subjective.

Popular aspirations and ideals.

In the last century popular education and ideals were rising at
the same time that a rising scale of wages was made possible by
industrial improvements accompanying the development of great
material resources. Yet this fortunate union of events did not suffice
to prevent the growth of discontent. Popular aspirations outstripped
material progress. Much more ominous is the situation
now that the pressure of population in America is beginning to
check and reverse this trend of the popular welfare. Those who
profit for a time by these shifts in the forces of distribution may
find, like those who benefited by slavery, that they have bartered
the peace and security of their children for the pleasures of a
brief season.

The common man in our democracy has at stake the preservation
of the advantages of our broad territory and bountiful resources.
The only factor in the present increase of population
that is controllable in large measure by legislative action is immigration.
Many representatives of organized labor, though moved
by more immediate considerations than those here presented, favor
limitation. But- the mass of the workers, diverted by false councils,
traditional sentiments, and racial sympathies, are divided on
the question. Without help from other groups of citizens the
laborers of America can not obtain the needed legislation.
Whether that help will be progressively granted in the years to
comne depends on the clearness of our economic judgments and on


### ---Economics-1913-0-15.txt---
the strength of our patriotic ideals. Perhaps those ideals are not
clear to us. Would we have the level of the popular welfare in
America fall even by a little if this could be prevented? Would
we rival other lands rather in population than in prosperity?
Would we wish to gain in density of settlement while losing in that
largeness of opportunity and of outlook which makes possible the
traits most distinctive of American life? Already we have on our
map many cities swarming like ant hills, the delight of the real
estate speculator and the despair of true friends of humanity.
Shall it be our ideal to multiply men on city streets and in smoking
suburbs, away from fields, and forests, and mountains; or shall we
not rather give to all our people space to earn an ample living and
to live an ample life, worthy of our democratic ideal?
 ## Economics-1914-0


### ---Economics-1914-0-01.txt---
For some twenty-five years there has been a marked recession
among English-speaking peoples from the strong individualism of
the early 19th century towards a gradual extension of government
authority in economic imatters. Laissez-faire has been discredited
both as a principle of political philosophy and as a rule of conduct.
Whether we should try to restore its prestige or with what
other principle we shall replace it, however, are matters concerning
which current discussion is somewhat confused. On the one
hand are those who declare that competition has broken down, and
has produced a monopolistic system which will in time completely
cupplant it, and which is of such tremendous extent and power
that it can be managed only by the government. On the other
hand are those who believe that competition is a force which should
be preserved as a ruling power in economic life, and would therefore
prevent by government action the establislhment of monopolies
and break them up where they are already established. This, in
substance, is the policy that our own federal government has been
pursuing since the enactment of the Interstate Commerce Law in
1887. Still others urge that all we need to do is to prevent the
evils of excessive competition by setting limits within which competitive
forces must work. The first group of thinkers take the
socialistic view and call for government ownership or at least for
direct government management. The second group are still in
effect believers in the laissez-faire principle, and think to restore
it by destroying monopoly. The third group also are still faithful
to their belief in the efficacy of competition but would restrict
its field of operation at the bottom so as to prevent industrial
degradation.

A centralizing tendency, that is, a departure from the principle
of individual liberty and a return to the principle of authority, is
to be seen in many if not all domains of thought at the present
time. Therefore, to understand properly what is going on in
industrial life we need to look at the change that is going on in
other life spheres. The terms laissez-faire and competition are


### ---Economics-1914-0-02.txt---
commonly used to describe the policy more properly called economic
liberalism. But economic liberalism is more than a political
platform or an economic formula. It is a system of culture that
has given character to the life of a great people for more than
two centuries. It is a superstructure erected on the principle of
personal liberty in religious and political matters. The 17th
century was an era of religious contest that resulted in the
establishment of ecclesiastical independence, which in turn carried
the rule of individualism to constitutional and political emancipation.
Once established in religion and politics, the principle of
personal independence found its way into economic conduct, and
the system was thereby made complete. Just as in its upbuilding
it was closely connected with personal liberty in other spheres of
life, so the present alleged breakdown of competition-the principle
of personal liberty in economic life-and the alleged restoration
of the principle of authority finds its counterpart in the movement
towards church unity, uniformity of creed, the extension of
state as against local authority over education, the extension of the
federal principle in politics, and the widening censorship of morals.
The application of the authoritarian principle is being made in
these lines for reasons quite similar to those that are causing its
application in industrial affairs. The excesses of the personal
liberty system in morals, religion and literature, have produced
results that are shocking the sensibilities and shattering the ideals
of multitudes of people. Hence, the demand for control. In politics
the extreme application of the principle of local government
has rendered equity, justice, and efficiency impossible in a multitude
of ways. Hlence, the demand for state and federal control.
Under no system of government regulation of conduct, however
extensive or intensive, has competition or personal initiative
been entirely absent, unless, indeed, under a system of slavery;
and at no time, under the most extended system of competitive
action, has it been possible to do away entirely with government
supervision and regulation. Even among the English-speaking
peoples in the past two centuries, when the laissez-faire aspects of
economic liberalism have seemed to predominate, it has not been
possible to get on without government regulation and supervision.
The reason is that the knowledge and resources underlying any
political and social system are constantly changing. Whether
the principle of personal liberty, expressed through competition,
or the principle of authority, expressed through government regula


### ---Economics-1914-0-03.txt---
tion, shall be the dominating principle of civilization at a
particullar period, depends on which one of them is likely, under
existing conditions of knowledge and resources, most largely to
promiote welfare. When evils flow from the too extensive application
of the prevailing principle, or, when, in new circumstances,
it is less productive of welfare, emphasis is gradually shifted until
the otlher principle occupies the foreground and becomes the dominating
force. Such is the situation now. Conditions have changed
so that the necessity and value of regulation are emphasized again.
The reSgime of personal freedom of competition un-der the conditions
of rapid scientific discovery and material growth has failed
to preserve, or perhaps to produce, the equality necessary for
success among competitors. Growing population, the development
of vast resources, the great size of units of industry, have
made the applicatioa of the competitive principle in many ways
impracticable. Competition has degenerated at many points fronm
a struggle between equals to an exploitation of the weak by the
strong. Industry has been swallowed up by industry until in
many lines a practical monopoly exists, so that prices, wages,
terms of employment, and the welfare of large numbers of people,
are in the control of comparativelv few. The benefits of the common
heritage of natural resources hbae passed too largely from
the people at large. On all sides we find private monopolies and
a natural system of capitalistic industry, inIvolvin g large control
of the opportunity for livelihood for the many. These evils bave
been produced, under conditions favorable to the acquisition of
great wealth and its massing under the corporate principle, by
a svsTtem that gave the world a "democratic constitution," "the
sa me law for all," "toleration," "capitalistic competition," "individual
initiative," and the otber benefits of liberalism. In more
general terms, the causes for the extension of government control
are: the ill-doing of some under the competitive system; our desire
for rapid national development, which led us to give large powers
to those who were to assume the risks of frontier promotionpowers
which, then innocuous, have niow become dangerous-; a
demand for a better standard of living by the great body of the
working class, who are asking with some show of reason what the
advances in science and industry have done for them. Moreover,
there is a feeling of resentmenit of control by others of their
opportunity to make a living.

The demand for state regulati-on either for the purpose of


### ---Economics-1914-0-04.txt---
restoring the competitive principle in industry, or frankly supplanting
it with the principle of authority, finds somie justification,
too, in the belief, not altogether ill founded, that the
economic evils of great industry have arisen in part from the
treatment of the modern form of the corporation by our courts
of law. They have given it in a measure the attributes of a
natural person, without imposing upon it the consequences of personal
responsibility. Hence, it has frequently been impossible
to reach the misdeeds of individuals because of their attribution
to non-personal agents. Penal remedies and preventive measures
alike have been often ineffective to protect the public. Consciousness
of this evil is seen in the demand for holding directors
of corporations to personal responsibility for the acts of the
corporation, and in the movement for the disruption of "corporations
of corporations."

From all these causes arises the demand for government protection
for the weak in industry; and some people appear to think
that unless the right to make a living is in a reasonable measure
provided, the next step may be an attack on the institution of
private property itself. In consequence, "today a great economic
movement is going on whbih aims at reorganizing the entire industrial
system from the social standpoint." The call is for the
state to look after the conditions of living and work of workers,
the management of prices and output of large enterprises, or to
take them over and thereby free the many from a virtual economic
control of the few, and reestablish, supposedly for all, a
proper standard of welfare.

An explanation of the establishment of economic liberalism as
a system, in the extreme form in which it has existed for more
than a century, is found in the abnormal condition of the four
centuries succeeding the discovery of America. Since that discovery
the life of the world has been abnormal in the sense that
it has been in a state of unstable equilibrium because of the existence
of opportunities for personal initiative, personal gain, and
individual expansion under conditions that yielded larger rewards
than ever before. Economic pressure in the old world could be
relieved by overflow into the new world. The great advantage
that came from this situation is now reduced by the substantial
occupation of this continent. The fact that our continent is, in
the present stage of the arts, substantially occupied, indicates
that the world is about to return to a more stable economic


### ---Economics-1914-0-05.txt---
equilibrium. The development of the industrial evils of today
and the consequent demand for regulation are simply an unconscious
acknowledgment that, all things considered, we have
reached in this country a stage of relatively diminishing returns
in our economic activity. It is a recognition of the truth of the
law of diminishing returns and of the Malthusian doctrine of
population, that unless the arts progress more rapidly than
population there is bound in time to be a relative pressure of
population on subsistence.

Man is so constituted that when he feels the evils of an existing
system he is likely to adopt measures of reform which will
produce evils as great as those he is seeking to remedy. That
danger exists now. We need to look very closely at the tendency
towards the extension of the authority of government into the
details of our economic life. The principle of competition, the
system of economic liberalism, has been too helpful to the progress
of mankind to be given up altogether. It has become an enduring
part of our civilization and philosophy of life. We cannot
deny that the competitive system has promoted liberty and
welfare, initiative and perseverance, industry and success, wealth
and culture, an abundance that has relieved poverty, has exploited
to human benefit the resources of nature more abundantly
than ever before, has enlarged knowledge, has provided for the
possibility of a greatly increased population, and, generally, has
uplifted the life of the people. No system which will deprive mankind
of these advantages is likely to promote welfare unless it
supplies other motives to the same results. For competition has
been a developing force, even if it has failed somewhat as a controlling
one. The motive power to action is of more iniportance
in the long run than the regulation of action.
In order to judge clearly the reasonableness of this demand for
wider government control of economic life, and possible results
of acquiescence in it, we must recall for a moment the ultimate purpose
of government. It is, undoubtedly, the promotion of the
welfare of the people who organize it. In the words of Justice
Gray, "The prosecution of the safety, health, the morals, good
order and the general welfare is the chief end of government,"
and the general welfare includes protection of opportunity to
make a living. This is not a new maxim in the jurisprudence
of the English-speaking peoples. The system of personal liberty
and the system of government control, or any combination of


### ---Economics-1914-0-06.txt---
them, has always had, and must always have, as its ultimate aim,
among these peoples, the establishment of welfare. All social institutions,
including the system of private property, are encouraged,
or permitted, for this end. As Justice Bruce of the
Supreme Court of North Dakota has put the matter: "It can
now be safely said that the courts and the public generally have
come to see and to hold that a right to property and liberty
should never be guaranteed in matters and things which are inj
urious to the public health, the public welfare, or the public
rnorality, or even to the convenience of the public as a whole."
As we have seen, the call for the application of the power of
government assumes several forms. Some call upon it to restore
the competitive principle by breaking up large industries, and so
to regulate business that competition will operate within certain
assigned limits. This is the neomercantilism that is sweeping
over the world. Some call upon it to assume that competition as
a regulative force is dead, and therefore to permit monopoly
under supervision. Others insist that since competition is dead
and monopoly established the government itself shall take over
and manage the greatest of these monopolies. This is the demand
of the socialists.

It is not worth our while to consider the last proposal. There
is no evidence worth considering that the American people have
yet reached the point where they desire the establishment of the
socialistic state. The principles of individual liberty and the
rights that have been established uipon them through the long
struggle of four centuries will not be abandoned. Economic
liberalism in the large sense is and will remain a living faith
among the English-speaking peoples, even though they may see
fit to establish what is called the new "social state."
It is impossible, of course, to discuss now all the projects put
up, either for the complete restoration of competition, or for its
partial restoration under government regulation. I invite your
attention, therefore, to a few of the proposed lines of action.
It is urged, first, that the government promote welfare by general
social legislation; second, that the government regulate wages,
particularly by establishing a general minimum wage; third, that
the government regulate prices, particularly in those articles
that may be regarded as the products of monopolistic, or partly
monopolistic, industries; fourth, that the government determine
in some way the form and size of business organizations; fifth,


### ---Economics-1914-0-07.txt---
that the action of government be confined to supervision of business
as it is carried on in order to prevent infractions of the law
and give full publicity to the methods of so-called "big business"
; and finally, that the right of society in great accumulations
of property shall be mnore clearly defined and enforced either
by taxation or other means.

The proposal for what is called welfare legislation, for such
purposes as the prevention of accidents, sanitary conditions of
work, due limitation of hours of work, the protection of women
and children in industry, and all similar legislation, has long
passed out of the stage of debate. Formerly governments busied
themselves in enacting labor laws against labor. Now they busy
themselves in the enactmenit of laws interfering with labor in the
interest of labor. The principle of this legislation is accepted,
however men may differ about details.

When we come to the proposition to fix a minimum wage, we
are confronted with more debatable questions. In so far as the
wages actually paid in so-called sweated and parasitic industries
are below what the employer could afford to pay while still
making a proper profit-in so far, in other words, as they are
due to exploitation-; in so far as wages paid are insufficient to
afford a decent living in any industry in which profits are large
from some monopolistic advantage ;-in short, in all cases in
which wages are below what is necessary for a decent living in
any employment because of "exploitation"-there can be but
one opinion of the desirability of insisting upon a minimum. It
would be a mistake, however, either to insist upon a minimum
wage in all industries, or to compel the payment of a minimum
wage which, as a matter of fact, is more than the value produced
by the person receiving it if the returns to entrepreneur and
capitalist are but fair, or to insist upon a minimum wage in any
case without providing for its constant readjustment. To justify
these statements we must consider some of the effects of such an
action. In the discussion I repeat that I am leaving out all cases
of mere exploitation, assuming that in these a compulsory standard
is economically justifiable.

If a minimum wage is established larger in amount than the
product of the marginal workers, they are bound to be thrown
out of work. It is easy to say that if an industry is not able
to pay a "living wage" it had better not exist. But a "living
wage" is a very variable thing, and the fact that some people are


### ---Economics-1914-0-08.txt---
living on the wage they get may be regarded as evidence that
to them it is a living wage, although not a desirable living wage.
The question to be considered is not whether such an industry is
worth while, but whether, if we by election abolish it, those who
are thrown out of work can find other employment at as good
or better wages. It is difficult to see where they would find it if,
ins economic terminology, they are "the marginal workers," and
are already getting what they produce.

The imposition of a minimum wage under such circumstances
would make it necessary for employers in many cases to raise the
margin of industry and discharge their present marginal workers.
Otherwise the business would not be profitable. This is only another
way of saying what has already been said, that insistence
upon the minimum wage would doubtless reduce to idleness all
below the new margin, unless, indeed, as might happen in some
cases, the improvement in the standard of living of the lowest
workers increased their efficiency, or unless the imposition of
the additional burden on industry stimulated the discovery of
ncw methods or resources. In the one case we should have an
increase of productivity of labor; in the other, of capital. In
either case the industry could pay the wage imposed. But we
could not hope that such a result would be general.
Looking at the matter from another angle, a minimum wage
which was not earned at the margin would reduce profit or interest,
or both, and react on the accumulation and investment of
capital. In time there would be inevitably a slackening of industry
and a reduction of employment. I see no logical escape
from the conclusion that a general minimum wage, or a minimum
wage imposed widely, if it were higher than the product of the
marginal worker, would act to curtail industry, check accumulation
and investment and induce unemployment.

Moreover, we must remember that if the state insists upon a
minimum wage and guarantees it, it also should guarantee efficiency.
There is no more justice in compelling the employer or
investor to abandon his profit or interest, if it is only legitimate
in amount, in order to raise wages than there is in permitting
unduly low wages to be paid in order to increase profit.
Any effort of the government to regulate prices, except to
see that they are not monopolistic or are not fixed by agreement
among other agents, is open to criticism for reasons somewhat
similar to those given against the minimum wage proposition.


### ---Economics-1914-0-09.txt---
There is no more economic reason for fixing prices to enable labor
to get a fair wage or the consumer to get a "fair price" than
there is to fix prices in order to enable the investor to get a
"lair interest." There may be reasons for doing both, if it
were practicable. But the practicability is doubtful because of
tlEe complexity and changeableness of the factors involved. The
government and its agents have no means of determining beforehand
the effects of any particular line of action on prices. They
could not fix prices fair to investors, workers, and consumers
without knowing costs and conditions of markets and a multitude
of other things which are changing from day to day, and
which, if they could be discovered and set down in figures, would
be beyond the understanding of anybody but the expert in business.
Nor could they allow for foreign competition. The attempt
would very likely check accumulation and investment. We
have a good illustration of the possible effects of such an attempt
in the railroad situation in the United States at present.
If the application of the minimum wage doctrine and price
regulation in any large way should curtail industry and increase
unemployment, the government would be called on to provide for
an increasing number of people out of work. The number thus
to be taken care of would doubtless grow in time, not only from
industrial causes, but froin the stimulation to population which
would come from a lowering of the moral fiber of the people. For
the easier it is made for one part of society to get a living at
the expense of another part of society, the larger will be the dtc--
mand for it and the lower the moral tone of those who demand
it. A recent illustration of this fact is found in the effects of
Germany's thirty years' experience with insurance against sickness
and accidents. Cheating, malingering, and even a certain
physical degeneration, have become widespread, so that many
though-tful people are alarmied at the weakening of the moral
fiber of the nation, and the sapping of its physical vigor.
From the point of view of economic theory, the proposals, especially
with reference to the minimum wage, involve a new ethics
and a new economic law of distribution. Broadly speaking, every
theory of wages is, first, an explanation of existing conditions,
and, second, an attempted justification of them. Each theory
has been accepted so long as its practical result was consonant
with the prevailing ideal of the general welfare, which means
acceptable to the multitude or group or class in power.


### ---Economics-1914-0-10.txt---
The productivity theories have led us to say that each participant
in production is entitled to and gets what he produces, for
the reason that tlhis has seemed to us good ethics. Now society,
in establishing a standard of wages, would assume the theory
that each must get what is necessary to enable him to attain a
living conformable to the dignities and requirements of citizenship.
The proposal is not, "to each one what he produces," but,
"to each one what he needs," on a minimum basis. The British
Minimum Wage Law for miners frankly recognizes this fact. The
ideal of the federation of miners was defined by its representative
in these words: "What their demands stipulated was that when
a man went into the pit to work . . . he should be assured of a
day's wage, fixed and agreed to, and if this was not granted it
should be recoverable through a court of law. No matter what
the collier's failure or difficulty might be in earning his money,
whether it be through faults, breakages in machinery, inundations
of water, shortage of tubs, overcrowding, or a walk of long distances
to the face; if he was not addicted to idleness, then he
should be allowed a fixed minimum wage." "The descending of
the pit and the remaining at the coal face to do a day's work
shall establish the right of the workman to receive the average
wage of the district."

If this policy should become general, the ultimate result would
be the elimination of those who cannot earn the minimum and the
rising of the margin of production for labor to a point where
the product of labor will be equal to the minimum wage fixed by
lawr. In other words, we will have a return to the theory of
specific productivity. No other result is possible.
In passing from my criticism of these proposals, however, I
would remind you that it does not involve the regulation of wages
and prices where these are themselves subject to control by any
class to the detriment of another. Aside from this limitation the
wisdom of government interference in these directions is more
than doubtful.

There is ground for more favorable comment on proposals
that the government shall, within limits, determine the form of
organization and the size of business enterprises. Industries
which are monopolistic in their character are now by general
consent regarded as properly subject to government supervision.
It is not necessary here to discuss the methods or extent of
this supervision further than to say that if it is to be permanently


### ---Economics-1914-0-11.txt---
successful it must aim to protect the interests of wage
earners, the investing public, and the general public, alike. It
mnust not permit undue profit from excessive rates, or from exploitation
of labor. In this field, however, the limits and methods
of government intervention are being slowly worked out, although,
of course, with considerable friction and many jars.
The regulation of public utilities and industries of similar economic
character is an illustration in point.

Supervision may take the form either of inspection and publ.
city of procedure, or of direct attempts to influence the form
of organization. The former method has been recommended by
President Taft's Railroad Securities Commission, and wherever
it has been applied its results have been good, even if they
have not cured all the evils. But we may reasonably ask for
more than this, at any rate in many cases. The prohibition of
what we may call interlocking directories, of stock watering, rebates,
price discrimination, and the holding of the stock of one
corporation by another, and the elimination or limitation of holding
companies, are some of the things that may well be
accomplished.

Aside from industries that are clearly monopolistic by nature
the whole aim of government interference should be to establish
conditions which will induce healthy competition. The government
should attempt to determine what constitutes, under existing
conditions, an efficient unit, or an efficient size, of a business.
It has been claimed for the trusts that they were more efficient as
producers and distributors than similar enterprises in the
same line. I do not feel that this claim has been established,
and think that there are signs that it is largely untrue. The
economies of big business have been secured at an economic and
social cost that has not been fully evident or fully understood.
T'here is reason for thinking that the dissolution of the tobacco
trust has already recovered to society some valuable entrepreneur's
talent which was being suppressed by the discharge of clerical
duties under the trust, and has induced competition among those
of this order of business talent with some resulting shaving of
prices to the consuming public. Even if it were true that the
biggest business is the most efficient in the sense that the cost of
its unit output is lowest, it does not follow that we should permit
that system of industry to exist. For we can tolerate only that
system which, whatever its mere econoiimic merits, is not likely to


### ---Economics-1914-0-12.txt---
destroy political liberty or economic opportunity. "The best
size of unit for general welfare is the thing for us to establish,
not necessarily the one which has the largest output or the
lowest unit cost."

Moreover, there is justification for fixing a maximum financial
unit of business, aside from the question of greatest operating
efficiency. For even if competition, working as it does with considerable
friction, fixes a price that is a fair return of capital
invested, this is not enough for the protection of the public if
the capital invested becomes larger than is adequate to performii
the total service needed. If it goes beyond this, a "fair" return
necessitates a price larger than the value of the product to the
community, and economic friction, to say nothing of monopolistic
control, sometimes makes it possible to secure such a price.
The fifth proposal in the program of government extension
policy is the imposition of greater burdens upon accumulated
wealth. This means a renewed emphasis on the social origin and
character of property and therefore on the right of limiting it,
not only to prevent unjust accumulation, but any accumulation
which in character or amount threatens the welfare of society.
This question is before the country now in the suit against the
Harvester Trust. According to the prosecution in this case, the
organization and power of the trust are such that "if the International
Harvester Company were disposed to exercise the power
its enormous wealth gives, and if it were left unrestrained to do
so, it could drive every competitor it has from the field." It is
necessary to notice that there is no new legal, ethical, or social
principle involved in this doctrine, although the wisdom of extending
the principle at present may be an open question.
Some general consequences of these proposals must not pass unnoticed.
Undoubtedly, a certain amount of good can be done
by proper supervision to prevent the oppression of the weak by
the strong and the impairment of the public welfare. It may
be true that, as one writer puts the matter, the present movement
is an attempt by the community to resume sovereign power in
order to conserve the right of the individual to make his living.
But bureaucratic supervision can never be a permanent substitute
for proper standards of righteousness among men in their dealings
with one another. We may have an honest and efficient
officialdom that puts the common weal above corporate and personal
interest, but we cannot have it for very long. The inherent


### ---Economics-1914-0-13.txt---
w-eakness of wide and intense government regulation is its lack
of motive to take advantage of new conditions to further progress;
whereas the inherent strength of a system of individual initiative
is the presence of that motive.

If any of the proposed policies is to win final success in improving
the condition of any class of society, or of all classes, it
can do so only by increasing the sense of responsibility of those
directly affected. For those who have made any study of attempts
to improve human society through long periods must feel
very deeply "how great is the ignorance of the wise, the weakness
of the strong, the folly of the prudent and the helplessness of the
well-meaning." They will realize that we "cannot sweep away any
one thing without upsetting innumerable other things, good, bad,
and indifferent."

The adoption of the policies that we have been discussing may
mean a period of comparatively stationary economic life. In so
far as we clip the wings of motive we impede rapidity of motion.
Yet it may be well sometimes to do this. For abundance, irrespective
of distribution, will not necessarily produce welfare.
What a nation may need may be an abundance sufficient for social
welfare according to definite ideals, even though it may not be so
great an abundance as with different ideals might be obtained.
It is true that progress in invention and discovery may still
go on if bureaucratic oversight should check industry. It will
do so, however, only if a sufficient margin of advantage is left
with the enterprising pioneer in the future as in the past. A
return to the intensive, minute, supervision over industry which
prevailed under the old mercantile system would defeat its own
purpose. Yet it is hard to tell where to stop when once we use
the arm of government for economic purposes. It is doubtful
whether in this country the public will endure the menace to liberty
involved in very intensive supervision. It is doubtful whether,
if the supervision were successful, we should be better off in the
long run, and we should have lost all the advantages that have
accrued to us under the great system of economic liberalism.
Although, then, there is good in the proposition for the extension
of government activity into business, the field of its operation
must be carefully limited. Can we, in conclusion, lay down
briefly some of the limits within which it should be confined?
I venture to suggest, first, that reasonable welfare legislation,
as has already been remarked, is accepted by the American public


### ---Economics-1914-0-14.txt---
as proper, and that our various governments may concern themselves
with extending this without objection.

In the second place, government may properly attempt a
delimitation and regulation of industries which are monopolies
by nature. It may also segregate those, if any, which are likely
to be most serviceable to the public and to their owners when
treated as monopolies. Although there is room for difference of
opinion on details, the principle is generally accepted now that
the private enterprises which commonly go under the name of
public utilities are best treated as monopolies to be carried on
under proper reasonable supervision.

In the next place, the government may properly continue its
policy of compelling the trusts to dissolve into their component
industries and of requiring big business enterprises to resolve
themselves into units of the most efficient size. To accomplish this
purpose properly, the government should undertake an investigation
of what constitutes a unit of greatest efficiency in the more
common big businesses. Having determined this, the law should
prevent the organization of businesses which will exceed this most
efficient unit in size unless the advance in the arts makes it possible
to prove that some larger or different organization is better,
in which case the law should be adapted to the new conditions.
Again, the utmost publicity compatible with the rights of business
should be given to the transactions of corporations, whether
monopolistic or other. But it is hard to justify the minuteness
of the inquiries which some of our commissions now propose into
various lines of business.

In the next place, the law may very properly forbid agreements
fixing prices by producers or distributors of goods. The law
miay further properly provide a minimum standard of wages for
industries in which labor is obviously exploited. Still further,
few will obj ect to reasonable increase in the burdens imposed
upon great aggregations of wealth for the general welfare, especially
when these aggregations of wealth have come from sources
that give them a large social element.

Finally, the attitude of our courts towards the character and
acts of corporations needs readjustment. There is some ground
for believing that from the point of view of the interests of society,
it was a mistake to give corporations the attributes of
personality. In any event, there is a demand that personal responsibility
for corporate acts shall be fixed upon the officers in


### ---Economics-1914-0-15.txt---
such ways as to prevent the recurrence of some of the evils that
have given rise to the hostility towards corporations.
One inevitable consequence of the establishment of the principle
of government control of economic life must not be lost
sight of even if its early appearance is unlikely. Regulation by
a government which is the people, for the people, tends to be
regulation of the people by a government in spite of the people.
IRegulation of industrial life in behalf of some means repression
of the activities of some others. The government, as such, once
recognized as having a right to regulate economic conditions,
will be pushed by the ruling class or classes towards regulation
or control of the rights of others in politics, religion, and other
ways; for economic privileges or rights cannot crystallize into
custom and be cast into law in behalf of some as against others
without imposing upon the "some" corresponding duties which
become privileges or rights of the "others." This process means
a slow crystallization of economic status and the production of
classes in society.

These, then, are the principal lines of proposed wider government
activity at present before the public, in this country and in
England. Their significance is far reaching. While declaring
no new legal principle, they give a different color to accepted
doctrine. The emphasis is now lo be put upon the rights of the
community in private property and to private property, rather
than on those of the individual owner. The movement means that
the acquirement of property to an extent that may endanger the
public welfare is to be restricted. Laws should be framed, we are
told, to care for the worker rather thian for industry. In other
words, the new movement is an attempt to establish by authority
the individualism-conditions of welfare-which individual action
itself has failed to achieve. The whole movement imports a lessening
of the importance of private property, and a strengthening
of the importance of men; an emphasis of public weal as against
private gain; a demand for more equality in economic conditions,
and greater social responsibility for wealth.
 ## Economics-1915-0


### ---Economics-1915-0-01.txt---
As Bacon centuries ago taught men that "knowledge is to be
found by careful investigation of nature, not by spinning cobwebs,"
and "turned men from disputations of words to an observation
of the world around," so we are learning today for the first time
that economics is a science that has to do with the affairs of this
world and is not merely a part of abstract philosophy. Half a
century ago Mill was called severely to account for asserting that
while production rested on physical laws distribution rested on
the conventions of society. We are just beginning to find out how
wide of the mark the first part of this statement is, however true
within wide limits the latter may be.

Until within a decade or two economics was considered the science
of private pecuniary gain. Within very recent days the emphasis
has shifted from private gain to human welfare.
The traditional economics took definite shape at the moment
when the world was passing from one economic system, method
of production, and business organization to another. Its principles
were drawn almost entirely from the conditions then rapidly
passing away. They were posited on the condition of the independent
employer, who was at the same time skilled workman,
capitalist or owner of the instruments of production, and actual
director of industry. This was before the productive power of
the world was capable of producing a large surplus wealth. The
key to the industrial situation then was the trained independent
employer, working within the guild for his own account under the
rules formulated by the guild. The chief object of these rules
was to give every man an equal chance and to assure to him the
rewards of his industry and skill. Capital, in that age, though
important was not a separate category. The philosophy did not
provide for a condition of affairs in which the mass of the workmen
were unskilled, working for wages, and the instruments of
industry were owned by another class of society, for the most part
devoid of technical knowledge. The main object of guild rules
was always general well-being and not capitalistic profits.


### ---Economics-1915-0-02.txt---
The present system is based fundamentally on competition, private
property, and individual freedom of contract. The universality
and beneficence of competition are assumed. It is also
assumed that when an individual pursues his own financial advantage
successfully he creates wealth, and that, under competition,
this wealth will be widely if not equally diffused and the community
will thereby benefit. This teaching remained virtually
unshaken in theory and universal in practice, so far as the organization
of society was concerned, to something like a generation
ago.

Meantime, the surplus wealth, due to the industrial revolution
and the universal application of machinery, had enormously increased
and these economic doctrines had become thoroughly
crystalized into a body of positive law and institutions. Nowhere
else was the system so thoroughly entrenched in law as in the
United States under the constitutions, federal and state. Granted
the underlying assumptions of this school and it logically followed
that any conscious attempt to control the production, distribution,
or consumption of wealth was not only an unwise and unjust interference
with natural forces, but was sure to work injury in
practice by making worse the very evils it was aimed to lessen or
abolish.

This deprived society of a conscious aim and left the state like
a ship without a rudder. With the enormous increase of surplus
under such a system, it became increasingly advantageous to individuals
to control this surplus. The economic doctrines, the
principles of laissez-faire, together with the rapid development of
means of communication and transportation, quickened all movement.
Combination followed. Nor should it be forgotten that
until very recently the endless extent of free land and unappropriated
natural resources concealed the true condition of affairs
and the general tendencies of our civilization. At the same time,
the conditions of life were so easy for all that any attempt to
change the constitution of society or to reform the system fell on
deaf ears. The forces making for combination resulted in an unmistakable
trend toward monopoly and the passing into the control
of a few hands of the natural resources, the instruments of production,
and, above all, the sources of credit.

It became harder each year for any man to become an independent
undertaker of industry, or even to entertain a rational
hope of such achievement. This caused class cleavage and social


### ---Economics-1915-0-03.txt---
unrest. The keeping open of the gates of immigration, together
with the constant increase of automatic, or semi-automatic, machinery
made the profitable employment of a lower and lower
grade of workmen in our manufacturing industries possible. The
incoming of these hordes of various races, tongues, and religions,
prevented that effectual combination of labor which might have
done something in the absence of a strong government to check
the growing inequality of wealth and opportunity.
The interpretation of our constitution by which a corporate
charter became a contract and a corporation was endowed with
all the more important economic characteristics and rights of a
natural person, destroyed competition as a controlling factor in
industrial life. Lax corporation laws supplemented by liberal interpretation
of the same by the courts, led the corporations to
combine under various forms and to enter into gigantic trusts and
combinations.

When the American Economic Association was formed about a
quarter of a century ago, the prevailing system of economics
taught that the state or organized society as such had nothing to
do with economics, although it must be said to the credit of some
of the founders that they protested vigorously against such doctrines.
Economics was considered, in the English speaking world,
a purely abstract philosophy-an a priori science. The sole
function of the state was to preserve law and order, and to prevent
physical violence to persons and injury to property. Under the
assumption of individual liberty, freedom of contract, free and
beneficent competition, whatever wrong existed would tend to right
itself. Hence, society, as such, need not concern itself consciously
about the conditions of production or distribution. Contrary to
the theory, this beautiful system of abstract philosophy never had
any very close relation to the actual world of affairs at any time,
or in any place. But the increasing inequality of wealth and
opportunity drove the the actual world every day farther and farther
away from the prevailing theory of economics. Competition
never applied as completely in any nation or community as the early
economists implied, for the simple reason that to be effective competition
must be between units of substantially equal bargaining
power. This means not only the equal personal liberty of the contracting
parties, on which we have laid so much stress, but it also
calls for substantially equal intelligence, knowledge, and economic
well-being. In other words, each party must be free to enter into a


### ---Economics-1915-0-04.txt---
given contract, or to refuse to do so, as the one result or the other
promises him more advantage. The fact that one of the parties
enters into a contract that he knows will be generally disadvantageous
to him because he feels that if he refrains from entering
into it he will be worse off than if he accepted it, fulfills neither the
idyllic suppositions of the economists nor the legal conception of
freedom of contract.

In the first flush of individual liberty, population was small,
capital was limited and largely held in individual hands. Under
the then existing circumstances the facilities did not exist for combined
action or for freedom of contract. Nor was any attempt,
in fact, ever made to bring within the area of freedom of contract
any considerable portion of the population living at any one time
in any community. First, freedom of contract arose in the days
when the major portion of mankind was not free in the sense implied
by the term freedom of contract. They were living in a condition
of semi-freedom, or status, more or less free according to our
standards, but nevertheless restricted in many ways. In many
communities, even the most advanced, a large part of the population
were in actual slavery. They of course were excluded.
Women, minors, idiots, and many other classes were shut out from
this sacred precinct.

But it was not until the days of capitalistic industry and the
enormous surplus resulting therefrom, with the consequent class
cleavage and the creation of the great wage-earning, non-propertied
classes, that we began to discover that the majority of the personally
free adult males, because of economic conditions, were quite
as unfree economically as many of those whose personal freedom
was limited by law.

Furthermore, it may be questioned whether or not the mere
growth of fixed capital, in the absence of all other considerations,
does not fix a definite limit to the effectiveness and beneficence of
competition. I take it that the Ricardian doctrine of competition
rests fundamentally on the belief that when two competitors
attempt to supply the same market with a given commodity the
price of that commodity will finally be cut to the point at which
the most efficient can still sell at a profit, while the less efficient
will find that price unremunerative. It further assumes that when
that condition is reached the less efficient can, and will, withdraw
his capital and labor and apply them to some other industry which
promises at least the average reward or profit prevailing in the


### ---Economics-1915-0-05.txt---
community. But if such an inefficient competitor is not in a condition
to make this change without'total or even great loss, competition
has to that degree ceased to be effective. Under such
conditions, until the existing fixed capital is worn out, or until
demand has increased, by the growth of society, so as to require the
use of both plants at profitable prices, attempts at so-called competition
are not competition at all in the Ricardian sense, and
have none of the virtues ascribed to competition as the natural
regulator of industry and as a protector to the consumer. In the
face of these facts we invent various doctrines of so-called monopolies
and begin to consider these exceptions to our rules.
But the taking of the so-called utilities, including the common
carriers, out of the categories of competition and freedom of contract,
does not bring the readjustment of the doctrines of private
property into consonance with the popular ethical sentiments relating
to the rights of property in a rapidly growing and changing
civilization. Therefore, just as the decision (Chisholm vs. Georgia,
1793) that a citizen may sue a state was answered immediately by
an agitation for amendment prohibiting such suit, and within four
years by the adoption of such an amendment, so immediately
after the Dartmouth College case the people began to forbid, by
constitutional amendment where that seemed practicable, and by
general statutes where amendment was difficult, the granting of
any corporate charters without the specific reservation on the part
of the legislature to alter, amend, or appeal the same. This, of
course, did not reach charters previously granted.
In the absence of a constitutional amendment, it remained for
the courts to step in and relax the rigors of the Dartmouth College
case by strained interpretation. This was done by introducing the
doctrine of the police power, which is by implication superimposed
upon and made a part of all contracts. The New York courts
entered first upon this practice, but it was taken up within a
decade by the federal Supreme Court. This was a great extension
and an entirely new application of the police power.' The full
significance however of such application did not appear until more
than a generation later.

This doctrine cut deep into the theory of the Dartmouth College
case; but, what is much more significant, it placed once for all, until


### ---Economics-1915-0-06.txt---
the Supreme Court reverses itself, or until the constitution is
amended on this point, the power to determine public policy,
and consequently the content and extent of contract and private
property, in the hands of the court instead of the legislature, or
more popular branch of the government. It is interesting to speculate
as to what might have happened in a few decades if the doctrine
of contract as laid down in the Dartmouth College case could
have been maintained, and the courts had not dragged in the
police power as a serious modification and mollification of that
doctrine.

But even such a change did not keep the doctrine up to the
changing popular ideas of the right of contract and of private
property. The country found relief once more in a genuine political
revolution under Jackson, which issued in the reconstruction
of the court under Chief Justice Taney. When the first test case
came before the reorganized court (Charles River Bridge case,
1837), it was seen at once by the court that the application of
the Dartmouth College case would neither satisfy public opinion
nor permit the proper development of New England, save on the
sole condition that the people of Massachusetts would be willing to
tax themselves to compensate the owners of the Charles River
bridge for a property which had actually been destroyed when the
legislature chartered the defendant company to build a parallel
bridge, which, under the terms of the charter, had already become
free before this decision was rendered.

But the people of Massachusetts believed that the first bridge
company had received an adequate compensation for the use of its
property and for all the effort and risk ever incurred, and was,
therefore, not justly entitled to compensation. In the popular
judgment the company had been unduly greedy, and for private
gain had checked and prevented the necessary and desirable development
of the community. Under these circumstances there
was nothing for the court to do but to sustain the popular opinion
of Massachusetts, and thereby confiscate the property of the
Charles River Bridge Company, by an interpretation that can
scarcely be squared logically with the Dartmouth College case,
or with the earlier decisions in regard to ferries and toll bridges.
Much more striking illustrations appear in our history of the
fact that you cannot by any written constitution, or fiction of holding
popular opinion in check, in fact, maintain a form or content
of private property indefinitely in opposition to a well formed and


### ---Economics-1915-0-07.txt---
deliberate public opinion; or, as a distinguished lawyer has stated
it, you cannot compel a sovereign state or a whole people to be
moral against its will.

But we are reminded that the wisdom of our fathers decreed by
constitutional enactment that when, by changing popular sentiment,
the public demands that what is now property legally
acquired ought no longer to be property under the changed ethical
standards, the state should in a constitutional, orderly, and legal
manner, expropriate that property, and pay full value to its present
owners. But the object of private property and the sacredness
of contract is said to be to give to individuals the ability to count
on the future to a degree that will justify them in carrying on
production and making an effort to acquire property, and if such
an assurance cannot be given under some form of constitutional
provision production will cease and civilization will disappear.
Granted that morality requires such a doctrine, and that confiscation
is therefore unethical; yet, where public sentiment no longer
permits that to be property which is recognized as property under
the present constitution and laws, the doctrine is vain so long as
you cannot compel the whole people to act against its will. Perhaps
the remedy for this evil is not an attempt at compulsion by
law, but genuine moral education.

If then, we admit for the sake of argument that the content of
property will change, and ought to change from time to time, as
the needs of society change, and that no person and no class of
persons ought to be allowed to hold anything as property when
such holding has come to be harmful to the common weal, let us
see how the matter of compensation in such cases has been dealt
with in the past. This may enable us in some measure at least to
forecast the future, and possibly to avoid serious difficulties.
If we cannot compel a nation to act against its will, whether that
will be good or bad, can we force it to grant compensation in cases
where the night to property in the particular thing is no longer
permitted by public opinion? Is is not probable that the degree to
which compensation can actually be enforced in any case will depend
on the extent of the gap at any time which separates actual
conditions from the public judgment of what the present public
welfare demands?2

I "The substance of the law at any given time pretty nearly corresponds so
far as it goes with what is then understood to be convenient: but its form
and machinery and the degree to which it is able to work out desired results
depend very much upon its past."-O. W. Holmes, Jr., The Common Law,, p. 1.


### ---Economics-1915-0-08.txt---
If constitutional arrangements are such as to enable a frequent
and easy adjustment at any time, it is probable that the mass of
its rights, and consequently the value involved, will in any one
instance be so small that a community will be willing for the sake
of the added security and the encouragement to labor and investment
to expropriate those rights and pay full compensation. But
where property is concentrated in a few hands, or where property
has been protected by constitutional provisions to such a degree
as to make a change of law difficult, if not impossible, and where
that property has been enabled, by what is popularly considered
unjust if not illegal means, to prevent the necessary constitutional
and legal changes for a long enough time to allow the mass of
property condemned by the moral sentiment to become enormous,
is it likely that the public will consent to tax itself to pay compensation
on the necessary scale?

Nor can one psychological consideration be safely overlooked,
namely, that the longer such a condition prevails the more the
owners of such property become convinced not only that they are
right, and legally and morally entitled to such property, but, still
more important, they come to believe that they can in fact maintain
their possession by the old means indefinitely. Therefore the
proposition for expropriation with compensation falls on deaf
ears, and is regarded as an invasion of their most sacred rights by
those who consider themselves strong enough to maintain such
rights. Under such circumstances abolition with full compensation
is fought almost if not quite as bitterly as direct confiscation.
Does anyone believe that the owners of nomination boroughs in
England in 1832 would have been willing to give up their property
rights in such boroughs, involving their whole political existence,
for a money consideration? And yet Lord Eldon said they were
as much property rights, "as your lordships' peerages and titles."
Or, would the American slave holders, after 1850, have listened
to a proposition to free their slaves for any amount of money?
Or, does anyone believe that the liquor interests in America today
would consent for a money compensation to have all their property
expropriated, and their owners thus deprived of their present
control over political life, vice, and crime? Or, has Mr. Rockefeller'
s utterances led us to believe that he and the other coal
owners of Colorado would give up their rights "to protect their
employees in their rights of individual bargaining against the labor
unions" for any monetary award no matter how large? Are not


### ---Economics-1915-0-09.txt---
these rights too closely bound up in the minds of their owners with
the political control that affects all vested rights?
In the light of history, it will, perhaps, be admitted by all that
no large body of property, whether it be the public office or slaves
of bygone days, or the saloons of today, can exist indefinitely
against a growing sentiment that such property is injurious to
the welfare of society as a whole. It is probable that no constitutional
or legal forms can save such property. Furthermore, if
such property is maintained for generations by what the public
considers immoral means, and until the burden of compensation
would stagger the public, it is doubtful whether the public will
even offer compensation. This is more likely to be the case where
the property is of such a nature (as in the case of slavery) that
public sentiment will not allow the compensating body to recoup
the price paid by the further use of the thing as property.
If these premises be correct, does the question not come down
simply to this, whether when the issue is forced the owners will
consent to a gradual and peaceful modification of property rights
without compensation? If not, the alternative would seem to be
the final appeal to force. This brings us to the primitive doctrine
that one is entitled to such property only as he is physically able
to defend and hold. But such a condition carries us out of the
realm of law into that of mere might and reduces us to a state of
nature. No one who understood the situation would want to maintain
a constitutional form that reduces us to this condition. This
means the abandonment of law and a shifting of the economic
equilibrium by force as in the Peasants' Rebellion of 1381. In the
case of the abolition of the monasteries under Henry the Eighth,
as also of the political reforms in England, 1832, the property
owners were better advised and consented, very unwillingly it is
true, to a shifting of the economic power to other classes by more
or less peaceful means. This of course involved a large modification
of property rights as well as of political rights, and, in fact,
a large confiscation of private property. The reforms offer a close
parallel to the prohibition movement of today with its direct
confiscations.

The control of government has always given content and meaning
to property rights for determining the distribution of wealth
among the different classes of society. In America today those
in control of our concentrated wealth find themselves apparently
entrenched behind an almost unamendable constitution, based upon


### ---Economics-1915-0-10.txt---
the eighteenth century's interpretation of natural rights, freedom
of contract, individual liberty and competition. They seem to
think that having worked this constitution into a form where the
court is the actual determiner of public policy, and the consequent
definer of the rights of property, this condition can be maintained
indefinitely.

The attempt to justify the exercise of this power by the courts
rather than by the legislatures, is based on the theory that the
courts are the safest organ of society, because they are out of
politics. The exact contrary is the fact, as can be easily determined
by a reference to our own history, as well as to that of Great
Britain. The people will always accomplish their ends in the long
run, through political agitation and governmental action.
The courts are less well informed in regard to public opinion
and sound public policy than the legislatures. The whole effect
of turning such a power over to the courts is not to maintain the
status quo, or to prevent changes in property rights, but simply
to hold those changes in check and to delay them until peaceful
settlement becomes much more difficult, if not impossible. Chisholm
vs. Georgia led quickly to a constitutional amendment. The introduction
of the police power by the courts of New York made the
New York judiciary elective in 1846. The Dred Scott decision
was wiped out by blood and treasure. The declaring of the income
tax unconstitutional twenty years ago resulted in constitutional
amendment. The decisions on hours of labor, sanitation, and the
like, such as Lochner vs. New York, have led to a universal demand
that the people shall have direct political power over the courts.
This takes the form of an agitation for the recall of judges, or for
the recall of judicial decisions on constitutional questions. The
decisons in the railroad rate cases by which so many statutes have
been declared unconstitutional have intensified the popular movements
for direct popular control of the courts. The recent trust
decisions and the "rule of reason" evoke a demand for the limitation
of the power of the courts by statute or by constitutional
amendment.

It remains to be seen whether or not the courts will formally
reverse themselves,-whether as a result of the agitation they will
become very much more sensitive to popular opinion and come to
understand it better, and reverse themselves in fact but not in
form, or whether we shall have by constitutional amendment an
elective federal judiciary for limited term, perhaps accompanied


### ---Economics-1915-0-11.txt---
by the objectionable recall of judges or of constitutional decisions,
or both. The doctrine that in a democracy the courts can maintain
property interests unchanged for any considerable time, and
more particularly the property interests of large concentrated
wealth, against a well settled and determined public opinion, without
grave dangers meantime, seems highly doubtful.
Be that as it may, it will always remain true that the right to
determine public policy is a political right-in fact the most important
and fundamental political right-over which the public is
unwilling to surrender control.

The question then is, whether or not we are to keep our courts
in politics, and make them a football of partisan activity, or
whether we are to recognize once for all that the determining of
public policy is a political function, and that the legislature is a
more trustworthy political organ than the courts for such a
function.

There is no higher or more important public function than the
impartial administration of justice between man and man, and the
enforcement of the law. That the courts ought to be removed
from political influences all right-minded men admit. That this
can be easily accomplished the English experience proves. It is a
very significant fact that in the recent reconstitution of the Eng7
lish House of Lords by which it was effectually shorn of its political
powers, no suggestion even was made to deprive that House of its
judicial powers, for the simple reason that none but the judges
took part in the legal decisions, and the judges confine themselves
to declaring and enforcing the law and do not try to make the law.
But the judges can never be removed from political attack and
party influence in this or any other country so long as the chief
political function-the determining of public policy-is performed
by the courts.

The present system does not, in fact, adjust the public policy
satisfactorily to the actual needs of the day. It tends, rather, to
preserve the form adapted to a strictly pioneer organization of
society based on economic equality and free land, while we are
actually living in a marvelously complex civilization, with great
inequality and with our natural resources already appropriated.
Should the present decline in real wages continue for many years,
the tension is likely to become very great, for inequality, with the
consequent lack of bargaining ability, tends to increase at an everaccelerating
rate.


### ---Economics-1915-0-12.txt---
One phase of this situation found no consideration in the days
of laissez-faire, and has in fact but very recently attracted attention.
By this I mean that when inequality of bargaining power
has reached that point where competition is highly unequal we have
exploitation of the weak by the strong, without any violation of
law. Again, under our theories of competition we actually depress
the weaker members of society to a point at which we kill the goose
that lays the golden egg by preventing these people from becoming
and remaining efficient workers, and still more by preventing them
from bringing up their children with sufficient general skill and energy
to enable the economic production of the nation to be kept up.
Nor is this an evil that either cures, or even tends to cure, itself in
the absence of a strong, conscious social action on the part of the
state. Hence, the widespread agitation for a legal minimum wage
as a basis of maintaining the American standard of living. How
strange it would seem to the economists of even half a century
ago, with the theories then held of property rights and competition,
to come upon such a book as Hollander's The Abolition of
Poverty. For the economists of half a century ago believed that
"the poor we have always with us" and that poverty is as necessary
as profits as a spur to economic production. Under that
philosophy hunger and the fear of starvation gave the same motivation
to economic effort on the part of the poor as profits gave to
the capitalist.

The earlier economists would doubtless be equally shocked by
such a book as Ely's Property and Contract, which maintains that
property is a social creation, and a social concept, and that private
property should be neither acquired nor used in a manner injurious
to the public welfare. The earlier economists would have deserted
their ship had they come upon Taussig's statement that private
property is now on trial and that its sole justification is that it
conduces to the economic and social welfare of the people, and that
the day is already come when private property with its existing
rights and liniitations can no longer be assumed, but must prove its
right to further existence. This is an entire shifting of the burden
of proof from the not remote days when private property with its
present connotation was assumed without any question.
Perhaps the early economists would fail entirely to understand
such a book as Hobson's Wealth and Welfare: a Human Valuation,
or Veblen's The Instinct of Workmanship,-the first attempting
to prove the necessity of an entire shifting of the emphasis


### ---Economics-1915-0-13.txt---
from private gain to public welfare, that is, social well-being, and
the latter undertaking to prove that present methods of production
are at cross purposes with the controlling and impelling
instincts of mankind.

For centuries we have had now and then such books, but never
before by professional economists of standing. Yet these are the
books that are today not only receiving the most popular attention,
but the ones that are actually marking out the path, however
imperfectly, which economics must follow if it is to be more than
a system of intellectual gymnastics or to have any effect on practical
life.

Our free land has heretofore obscured the real tendencies of our
economic development. This fixed, on the one hand, a definite
minimum below which economic well-being could not be pressed and
thus maintained a definite standard of life. On the other hand, it
offered opportunities to vast numbers of people to make individual
fortunes, and thus to rise to the capitalistic class. This kept alive
that speculative spirit and hope so conducive to energy, enterprise,
and economic efficiency and production.

The wage system as at present interpreted in our legal doctrines
with the gates of opportunity closed by the complete appropriation
of natural resources and by the weakened bargaining power of the
individual in the uneducated, non-propertied, working classes, presents
quite a different spectacle. These changed conditions raise
questions of vast import.

We have passed recently, slowly, haltingly, and against great
obstacles presented by the courts, to legislation protecting women,
children, and finally adult men, as to accidents, workmen's compensation,
hours, and conditions of employment. However, the
final attitude of the courts on much of this legislation remains to
be worked out. But whatever the final view of the courts on
workmen's compensation and the minimum wage may be, the economists
and the general public, at least, have made up their minds,
once and for all, that so far as these subjects are concerned the
working classes are no longer subject to helpful or beneficent competition
or the freedom of individual contract. We have very
grudgingly admitted the usefulness of the collective bargaining
brought about by labor unions as a necessary and desirable brake
to check by united action the further disturbing of this equilibrium
until we can develop a state which is strong enough to represent
the social welfare and insure the progress of the nation. Competition


### ---Economics-1915-0-14.txt---
will always play an important role in human affairs, but it
remains beneficent only when society, acting through a state
stronger than the strongest individual or organized group of individuals
acting together, makes the rules of the game and sees to it
that pigmies are not permitted to fight with giants.
To those who have watched the inability of the laboring classes
to compete individually without results disastrous to them and
through them to the public in general, it must be plain that could
our present legal organization be maintained for a few generations
our attempts at unrestrained competition under it would mean
practical if not legal slavery for the non-propertied classes of
today and their descendants. Under such circumstances, if the
depressed classes were unable to throw off the yoke by force civilization
would die for lack of sustenance. For the experience of
mankind shows that no subject population limited to a given territory
can, or will, produce enough economic goods to support or
sustain itself. If, under such a condition of subjection the population
should become stationary, and peace could be maintained, we
should then have all the conditions for a civilization based on
slavery, and able to continue its existence by means of forced labor
alone.3

Our legal system of private property, with its present connotation,
has its chief defense in the doctrine that private property
is necessary in order to give a sufficient motivation for economic
activity and production on a large enough scale to maintain a
progressive or even stationary population. But with the exhaustion,
or appropriation, of our natural resources to a point
where, at present, one cannot avail himself of such resources unless
he possesses considerable capital, it appears that, if our present
legal organization is to continue, the hope of ever bettering their
status will soon fade from the consciousness of the whole working
population. When the laboring people obtain sufficient information
of the actual conditions, the motivation to industry offered by
the chance of owning private property will no longer influencl
them. And as these classes already constitute the overwhelming
majority of population in every industrial nation, this argument
for the existence of private property defeats itself; for if the hope
of acquiring private property be the chief motive for economic production,
and, if the great majority of our people are shut out from
such hope, production must cease unless it is kept up under some


### ---Economics-1915-0-15.txt---
other motive,-that is, under compulsion. In fact, the wage system
as based on individual bargaining, under our present interpretation
of individual private contract and private property, is as
inevitably doomed as African slavery was doomed in the United
States in 1860. For if private property is to be preserved as a
necessary inducement to energy, thrift, and economic production,
society must be so organized as to present that appeal to more
than an infinitesimal and ever-decreasing portion of the population.
The possibility of attaining the goal is at present too remote from
the consciousness of the vast majority of mankind to have the
desired effect.

This is not the time or the place to suggest a specific remedy
for this evil. It is probable that a solution will be found only after
a multitude of experiments in many directions, such as cooperation,
profit sharing, education, and the like, many of which in the
nature of the case must prove failures.

Whatever the final outcome may be it must accomplish two
important results: it will give the workman a conscious share in
the direction of the industry; and it will also, in addition to a guaranteed
minimum wage that may as Hobson suggests be regarded not
as wages but as cost, give him a share in the speculative gains or
profits of the industry. So much is required to keep up the efficiency
of production and to keep the workmen from sinking to
the inefficiency of servile labor.

Nor does the tradition that anyone can acquire property under
the present system, or the isolated instances of poor men who have
become rich, negative this conclusion. The fact is that we have
too recently escaped from a condition of abundant free land and
substantial equality of wealth and opportunity resulting from
and accompanying these unappropriated natural resources, to
make any such historical examples pertinent to the present inquiry.
It is pretty well agreed today that in the absence of specific and
conscious social action, working through the state, social classes
tend not only to perpetuate themselves, but, as time goes on, to
become more and more consciously guided by class motives.
In the absence of such social action the United States now
offers the most striking field for maintaining and perpetuating such
classes. First, we have the greatest degree of inequality; next,
we have the highest degree of rapid movement, at the same time
that our large vested interests have already learned to act as a unit


### ---Economics-1915-0-16.txt---
to a greater degree than elsewhere, while our legal system of
checks and balances prevents the government from holding such
interests in check.

With our concentrated wealth and large-scale production, m
the absence of a wise and conscious social policy, increased population
and consequent rise in rents will tend to shut out an everincreasing
part of the population from dominion over or ownership
in the natural resources and implements and tools of production.
The vague phrases, fortunately heard less frequently than
formerly, about the rich becoming richer and the poor poorer,
whether true or not, have no bearing on this point. Experience
has demonstrated that the whole system of individualism and individual
bargaining places the weaker members of society, when left
to their own individual devices, in such a position as to prevent not
only their improving their economic status but even their maintaining
their present position. Furthermore, the degree to which concentrated
control of wealth has already gone tends to make the
parties more and more unequal in bargaining power. Hence it
becomes easier and easier for the concentrated wealth to increase
the distance between the two classes, while the ability of individuals
to pass from one class to another grows constantly less. The tendency
of all natural forces, under present conditions, is to crystallize
and intensify class distinctions.

The present form of organization drives more and more women
and children into industry, the proportion of women gainfully
employed to the whole number of persons so employed having
increased from 13 per cent in 1870 to 21.2 per cent in 1910,
while recent figures from the stock yards district of Chicago show
that out of 194 families, in 94 of which the father is the sole wage
earner, the fathers earn but 54.4 per cent of the total income.4 At
the same time that this influx of women and children into industry
is taking place, real, as distinct from money wages, have constantly
declined since 1906.6

The picture that I have drawn is not a pessimistic one. In the
spirit of the earlier economists, I have merely tried to point out
certain tendencies, and to show that if these tendencies were allowed
to work unimpeded certain results, not pleasant to contemplate,


### ---Economics-1915-0-17.txt---
would surely follow. I have presented a mere description
of what awaits us in the near future if our present legal system,
with its worn out individualism and doctrines of contract and
competition, could be retained for a considerable period. But
fortunately, as already indicated, it is neither socially desirable
nor practically possible to maintain this system unamended.
It is true that the economists have not yet formulated a definite
scheme of reform, and equally true that those who profit financially
by the present system think they are unalterably opposed to any
change. Nevertheless, all the more important economists have had
their faith in the existing system profoundly shaken. In fact, the
laissez-faire doctrine has been repudiated, hence the endless confusion
in economic doctrines and teaching in America today.
We have rejected the old and have not yet discovered and
formulated the new. We may still believe that wages are determined
by demand and supply, but we are all now convinced that
what the demand or what the supply will be at any particular time
depends largely on the customs, institutions, constitutions, and
laws of the land, and not on any merely abstract a priori, philosophical,
or metaphysical speculations as to the economic man. We
are now trying to work out such a social control over demand and
supply as to make them what it is socially desirable they should be.
Let us ask once more whether there are any natural forces that
can be relied upon to bring about the re'organization now admitted
to be necessary if we are to make economic and social progress.
Let us ask further whether such a needed readjustment means, as
we are so often told, the destruction of private property and even
of existing wealth, with the consequent decay of our civilization.
Does such a change necessarily involve socialism, communism, or
any other form of organization inconsistent with the maintenance
of private property, retaining in private property all the elements
which have in practice proved themselves conducive to the general
welfare?

The chief emphasis today is on human welfare. While we have
come to realize that we may at any one moment urge on our economic
production at such a rate as to destroy the possibilities of
similar production in the future, the doctrine of human welfare
as against the abstract doctrine of natural production and distribution
under a system of unrestrained competition simply means
such a change in our philosophy, and such a modification of
private property through law reform, as will put into operation


### ---Economics-1915-0-18.txt---
the doctrine that the state, representing society as a whole, must
have a definite social ideal, aim, and program; and that our economic
doctrines, aims, and methods must all fall within that
program and form a part of it. This aim may be stated as the
homely one that no one has a right to acquire, or to hold, or to use
private property in a manner injurious to others, or to the permanent
general interest of the society of which he is a part.
Theoretically, this doctrine has always been a part of the doctrine
of private property, but, unfortunately, we have assumed that
certain uses were not adverse to the public interest, because we
assumed that they could be brought under free competition, and
that having once come within these bounds they could not be
harmful. From this we concluded, therefore, that they were beneficial.
We are asking, therefore, today as never before, and with
great earnestness, what uses and practices are really advantageous
to the public, and whether or not, despite the old economists, when
one does that which brings financial gain to himself he does what
is best for the public.

We are even inquiring, contrary to the wisdom of our fathers,
whether the private citizen necessarily always knows his own
interest, and, most of all, if he does know it whether he is always
economically and politically situated where he can pursue that
private interest effectively.

The economists now, almost without exception, admit that our
present institutions, customs, and laws do permit on a large and
ever-increasing scale the use of individual and corporate property
in a way that is not consistent with or conducive to public welfare
and equality of opportunity.

Such reform implies a large modification of our constitutional
laws, and the democratizing of both politics and business in such
a manner as to do justice to all and to give every one an equal
chance in life and to see that every individual born into the world
has an opportunity to develop his physical, mental, social, and
spiritual powers to as high a degree as possible in view of the
existing power of man over matter, that is, of the general productive
power of the age and country in which he lives.
If economists do not take this view of the scope, methods, and
aims of economic study, they will find themselves entirely sidetracked,
and economics becomes merely an a priori or abstract
science, with no more relation to human welfare than speculation
about the planetary system has.


### ---Economics-1915-0-19.txt---
To sum up: The old system has broken down, not because competition
has disappeared or ceased to be important, but because
the increasing inequalities of wealth, with the added facilities for
combination, have made it impossible for the great mass of the
people to compete on equal terms. "Under present conditions,"
as Walker says, "the game is played with loaded dice." At the
same time, the constitution with its system of checks and balances
has not expanded rapidly enough to enable us to meet the changed
economic and social conditions satisfactorily. On the other hand,
centuries of free schooling, free right of assembly, free speech,
freedom of religious thought, extended suffrage, and the increased
means of transferring persons, goods, and intelligence, have increased
enormously the ability of the poorer classes to combine
for political action. From this it follows, logically, that so soon
as the dissatisfaction reaches a certain point political power must
pass to the majority,8 that is to the working and non-propertied
classes, whose members are becoming more and more class conscious.
Furthermore, notwithstanding the great inequality in fortune, the
working classes have sufficient interest in the outcome to give them
hope and courage to work together for a re6rganization of society.
In spite of great divergence of opinion among them, there is a
common feeling that, in the long run, economic reform can come
only through political action. It is inconceivable that they should
come into political power and not use that power for bringing
about, through the state, the only organization including all the
people, such economic changes as public opinion considers desirable
in the common interest. When this idea is broached, we hear
much of the danger of revolution, destruction of property, and
the decay of civilization.

As against such dire prophecies, certain considerations should
not be overlooked. First, the working people have been trained
in political action and self-restraint for too many generations, and
understand how much easier, safer, and more satisfactory such
action is than violence. In the next place, they have too much at
stake to risk it all on such a doubtful venture.
Notwithstanding the spectacle that Europe offers us today, the
a "It is a chimerical hope to overpower or outnumber the middle class whatever
modes of voting, whatever redistribution of the constituencies are really necessary
for placing the government in their hands. Those, whether we like it or
not, they will assuredly obtain."-J. S. Mill, Dis8ertations, II, p. 155.


### ---Economics-1915-0-20.txt---
American people in general have too high a degree of material
well-being to risk it in such a mad and unnecessary attempt.
Truly, the present war shows that people may still be induced to
fight for what they consider racial or national existence, or even
supremacy, but it is far from proving that they can be persuaded
or compelled to fight for the purpose of maintaining a mere definition
of property rights, and that too a definition that has already
been rej ected by the people who would in fact have to do with the
fighting and later pay the bills for the struggle. The average
American shrinks too much from the very idea of blood, slaughter,
pain, and hardship, to enter upon any such a wild and senseless
scheme.

On the other side, much as the concentrated vested initerests
believe they are wronged, they of all people shrink most from
personal encounter and hardship. They might be willing to encourage
fighting so long as they can control the government and
compel, or induce, other classes to do the actual fighting and pay
the bills for them, but the moment they see the control of government
passing by peaceful means from their hands the spirit of
fight and physical resistance fades away. The modern millionaire
and his satellites are plotting and scheming, not fighting, animals.
Still better, the more enlightened among our rich men have
already become convinced that the present situation is both undesirable
and untenable. All that they need is to be convinced
that any proposition promises real reform to cause them to throw
themselves heart and soul into it.

While the great mass of factory and other social legislation of
the past generation when rightly viewed is seen to be in strict
harmony with the thesis herein maintained, unfortunately it has
been heretofore generally regarded as a strict exception to a
general rule or theory. In fact, it is an essential part of the
modern theory of property and economics. It is based on the
fundamental idea that the community, if it is to adjust itself to
everchanging social circumstances, must have a distinct social aim
to be accomplished through the agency of the state.
Under this doctrine economics will no longer be the science of
private pecuniary gain resting upon a system of abstract assumptions,
but the science of men in an organized society, working
within a state with a conscious social purpose. Such a state will
be effective only as it is easily amenable to a wisely directed public


### ---Economics-1915-0-21.txt---
opinion, representing, at any time, a clear maj ority of the
community.7

It would seem to require no demonstration that a state politically,
or an economic organization within a state, cannot be considered
in stable equilibrium, or likely to endure unchanged, when
under a wide suffrage and extended political rights the majority of
the people want that system changed.

But this is not a disturbing thought. It means evolution, not
revolution; not abolition of private property, but the bringing
of the rights of private property into harmony with the
desires and needs of the age. No sudden or violent change or
destruction is needed, but a gradual, orderly, and peaceful modification
and adaptation of institutions, and consequently of economics,
to a modern, changed environment and to public welfare.
 ## Economics-1916-0


### ---Economics-1916-0-01.txt---
the origin of the American Economic Association, some thirty
years ago, the President selects for the theme of his annual address
either a fundamental economic problem or some phase of the relation
between economics and our social, political, educational, or
legal institutions. In breaking with this tradition I am taking a step
which requires an opening word of explanation. The reason underlying
the precedents and giving them their value is the principle
that the man whom the Association has honored should offer in
return whatever he has that seems most worthy of attention from
the Association and the public. But of that he must be the judge.
In the present case exceptional circumstances seem to justify an
unprecedented choice. A brief statement of the circumstances
may serve to secure for the subsequent argument a more indulgent
attention.

The presidents of a score of American universities were invited
some years ago by the Census Office to nominate graduate students
of economics, one from each institution, who might assist in the
study of various problems within its field of work. The Secretary
of the Economic Association, who was temporarily in the employ of
the Federal Government, had suggested that the invitation be given
and was responsible for the results. His position had grown
naturally out of his secretarial duties and was intended as a recognition
of an extended report and accompanying papers just published
by a committee of the Association.1

Somewhat more than a year after this group assembled in
Washington the results of the census of 1900 laid the basis for
the apportionment law of 1901 and members of the group prepared
for Congress the tables around which the prolonged discussion
centered. While following these congressional debates
they became interested in certain vexatious difficulties and anomalies
in the method of apportionment, for the solution of which


### ---Economics-1916-0-02.txt---
Congress naturally could not wait. So it cut the knot and turned
to other business. The decision which Congress reached was seemingly
devoid of justification in theory and had been rejected by all
trained students who had faced the problem. Twenty years earlier,
our first president, General Walker, had characterized a similar
solution as losing "all hold on any principle governing the matter."
During the following decade memnbers of the group continued a
spasmodic discussion of the apportionment problem among themselves
and with others, and, in 1910, when it again became urgent,
a solution had been worked out which could hardly have occurred
to any one of the group alone or to any member of Congress. The
solution commended itself to the House Committee on the Census,
aroused no opposition in House or Senate, and was speedilv followed
in the law. The fact that these members of our Association
have contributed to elucidate the difficult problem may justify the
choice of a themie remote from the field of economics as traditionally
interpreted.

A few months before the group was brought together the president
of the Association, in closing his annual address, had said:
"I believe that the largest opportunity of our economists in the
immediate future lies not in theories but in practice, not with students
but with statesmen, not in the education of individual citizens,
however widespread and salutary, but in the leadership of an
organized body politic.'

It is somewhat in the spirit of President Hadley's speech at New
Haven that I ask your attention to this theme. My immediate object
is to present the reasons for believing that the problem of
apportionment under the provisions of the Constitution, a technical
problem to which at intervals through more than a century the
attention of Congress, executive officers, and statistical experts
had been directed, with only temporary and provisional success, has
at length been solved by reconciling the demands of Congress with
the conditions imposed by theory. My remote object is to show
that the ground has been cleared for renewing under more favorable
auspices that effort to check the steady and rapid increase in the
size of the House of Representatives which was made in 1850 and
abandoned in 1870.

Only two provisions of the Constitution bear on the present
problem, one that "6representatives . . . shall be apportioned
among the several states . . . according to their respective numbers,"


### ---Economics-1916-0-03.txt---
and the other that "each state shall have at least one
representative."

Between 1790 and 1911, inclusive, two fundamentally different
methods of apportionment were employed, one method in seven
apportionments and the other in six. It is theoretically possible,
of course, that the two methods may be equally good or equally bad,
but probably one method is better than the other and possibly one
method is wrong and the o(ther right. The two methods differ in
that one, which I will venture to call the method of an assumed
ratio, starts from an assumed number of persons to one representative,
the number being usually but not necessarily a whole number
of hundreds or thousands; and the other. which, but for the fact
that it has long been called the Vinton method from the name of
the representative who introduced it, inight be named, in contrast
to the first, the method of a computed ratio, starts from an assumed
number of representatives in the House and computes the
average number of persons to a representative by dividing the
constitutional or representative population of the United States
by that number. The quotient is then used as a divisor for the
population of each of the states, a representative is apportioned
for each unit in the resulting series of quotients, the sum of which
under all ordinary circumstances is less than the number of representatives
to be apportioned, the remainders are arranged in order
of size, and a representative assigned to each in succession until the
desired total is secured. This method sometimes leaves one or more
mnajor fractions, or fractions larger than onie half, witlhout an additional
representative anid sometimes gives an additional representative
for one or more minor fractions, results which have been serious
stumbling-blocks to Congress but are inherent in the method.
The Vinton method was used at every census between 1850 and
1900, inclusive; the method of an assumed ratio was used at every
census between 1790 and 1840, inclusive, and again in 1910. The
latter method has taken two forms, one in which all fractions after
division are disregarded in the apportionment, and the other in
which all fractions larger than one half entitle the states wherein
they occur to an additional representative. These two may be
called the method of rejected fractions and the method of major
fractions.

After this preliminary clearing of the ground my main thesis
may be stated as follows: The method of major fractions is the
correct and constitutional method of apportionment.


### ---Economics-1916-0-04.txt---
To determine what is the correct and constitutional method a
test of correctness is needed. The requirement that representatives
shall be apportioned among the several states according to
their respective numbers cannot be strictly and exactly met. Probably
no two states ever have had or ever will have exactly the same
number of inhabitants to one representative. This fact does not
authorize Congress to disregard the constitutional mandate, but
does oblige it to interpret the phrase by reading into the Constitution
at this point the words "as near as may be," so that the requirement
means, representatives shall be apportioned among the
several states according to their respective numbers as near as
may be. This is the substance of the claim made by Daniel Webster
in his committee report to the Senate in 1832,3 which convinced
that body and ten years later convinced both Houses that
the method of apportionment which had been followed by Congress
theretofore was unsound, if not unconstitutional. A bill drawn in
conformity with Webster's position reached President Tyler in
1842. He finally signed it, but at the same time filed a memorandum
expressing doubts regarding the constitutionality of the innovation.
Since Tyler's day no serious dissent from Webster's position
has been expressed, I believe, either on the floor of Congress or
elsewhere, and it may be accepted as unchallenged. It affords one
criterion whereby the apportionment of representatives to any
state may be tested. If there is doubt, for example, whether State
A is entitled to ten or eleven representatives, three ratios are
needed: (1) the number of persons to one representative in State
A with ten representatives, (2) the same in State A with eleven representatives,
(8) the same in the United States. The nearness of
the first and second ratios to the third, or standard, is then measured,
whichever ratio is nearer to the standard is accepted, and
State A assigned the corresponding number of representatives.
This is the test and the only test which can be derived from
Webster's argument. It is of great help, but it does not completely
solve the problem.

A second test, to be set beside Webster's, is suggested by the
original object of apportionment. This was to give the more
populous states the larger representation in the House to which
their numbers were thought to entitle them and which they did
not receive in the Senate. From the fundamental purpose of apportionment


### ---Economics-1916-0-05.txt---
it follows that a method giving the populous states
systematically either more members or fewer members per unit of
population than the small states is incorrect.
We have, then, two criteria, of a just and constitutional apportionment:
first, the ratio in each state must be as near as may be
to the standard ratio; and, secondly, the method must hold the
scales even between the large and the small states.
The ratio either for the country or for a state is usually expressed
as the average number of persons to one representative.
For example, under the apportionment law of 1911 there were
211,877 persons to a representative. But for my purposes it is
better to conceive that each inhabitant of the country or of a state
has an equal interest in a representative and to express that interest
in the form of a decimal, such as .000005 or .0000047 or
.00000472. A further improvement gets rid of the long decimals
by taking a round number of people, say 10,000,000, as a unit
and computing the number of representatives to that unit. When
ratios are stated in this form, the meaning is more quickly grasped
through ear or eye and comparisons between two ratios are more
easily made.

Armed with these criteria of a correct apportionment, we are
in a position to approach the problem. Because of the historical
interest attaching to it I will first apply the tests to the apportionment
of 1832, the last made under the method of rejected fractions.
The ratio used in the bill before the House was one representative
to 47,000 people, which is equal to 213 representatives
to 10,000,000. Under this ratio Massachusetts was entitled to
12.99 representatives and the question before Congress was, Should
it receive 12 or 13? If it received only 12 representatives, it
would be at the rate of 197 to 10,000,000 people; if 1%9 it would
be at the rate of 213 to 10,000,000 people, the standard ratio.
Tried by Webster's test of nearness, then, Massachusetts was
entitled to 13 representatives and was defrauded by receiving only
12. It is not surprising that Edward Everett in the House and
Daniel Webster in the Senate joined in a vigorous, though in its
momentary effect an unsuccessful, onslaught upon a method which
led to such results.

They did not notice, however, and since that controversy ended,
no one, I believe, has remarked, that the system of rejecting all
fractions, even those as large as .99, confers an unjust advantage
in the long run upon the populous states, among which at the time


### ---Economics-1916-0-06.txt---
Massachusetts held a leading position. If there are eleven states,
one of 10,000,000 and ten of 1,000,000, and all remainders are rejected,
the chances are that the ten remainders of the small states
will in combination be several times as great as the one remainder
in the large state. Or in the case of Massachusetts in 1832, with
a ratio of one representative to 47,000 people and 12 representatives,
the apportionment against which Everett and Webster protested,
that state would have had, to be sure, only 197 representatives
to 10,000,000 people, far short of the standard 213; but the
smallest five states then in the Union, which together had a population
somewhat less than that of Mlassachusetts, would have received
only 172 representatives per 10,000,000 people. Massachusetts
would have fallen 16 below the standard, but they would
have fallen 25 below Massachusetts. Massachusetts would have
had a rejected fraction of .99 but they would have had rejected
fractions amounting in combination to 2.38.
To test the conclusion that the method of rejected fractions
favors the populous states I have reapportioned the House for
every decade between 1790 and 1840 by applying the method of
apportionment employed in 1910 to the conditions and compared
the results with those actually embodied in the laws. The states
which were given too many representatives between 1790 and 1840
include New York and Massachusetts, each of which received four
more than it deserved, Pennsylvania, which received three more, and
Virginia, which received two more. Among the smaller states
Delaware should have had four more than it had, Vermont three
more, New Jersey two more, Connecticut, North Carolina, Tennessee
and Missouri one more. Thus, during the first five decades of
apportionment, the populous states as a group got thirteen representatives
more than they were entitled to and the small states,
as a group, thirteen less. The efforts of Everett and Webster,
called forth by what looked like a serious injustice to Massachusetts,
led to the introduction ten years later of a better method,
but in so doing overturned a method by which in the long run
Massachusetts had profited as much as any state in the Union.
I conclude that the method of apportionment used between
1790 and 1830, under which all fractional remainders were rejected,
is incorrect and unconstitutional and that for two reasons:
first, it does not apportion in each state as near as may be to the
standard and, secondly, it regularly results in over-representing
the populous states.


### ---Economics-1916-0-07.txt---
If this conclusion is correct, but two methods of those which
have been tried remain to be examined, the method of major fractions
and the Vinton method. The arguments in favor of the
former and against the latter are of two classes: practical arguments
likely to gain the attention of members and committees of
Congress; and theoretical arguments appealing to statists and
mathematicians, but with little meaning for the general piublic.
During the prolonged controversy the solution reached by Congress
has at times appeared to theorists indefensible and the solutions
proposed by theorists have seemed to Congress unjust or incomprehensible.
In this controversy I believe that Congress has
usually been right in its instinctive judgment, but unable or indisposed
to furnish a convincing defense of its decision, and that the
theorists, while better equipped with arguments, have been defeniding
an untenable position.

The fundamental difference between the Vinton method and the
method of major fractions, as already explained, is that the former
starts from an assumed number of representatives and the
latter from an assumed ratio. So we are brought face to face with
the question, Which is the correct point of departure? Certain
practical considerations likely to affect the choice of Congress
between these methods will first be presented and later the more
theoretical arguments.

The method of an assumed ratio is implied in the Constitution,
which says, "The number of representatives shall not exceed one
for every thirty thousand." The purpose and result of this clause
were to limit the size of the House. If the Convention had had in
mind a method starting with a number of representatives, it would
have been more natural to make the clause read, "The number of
representatives shall not exceed x (e.g., 120 or 112)." The
phrasing of this limitation indicates that in thinking of apportionment
the members of the Constitutional Convention of 1787
instinctively began with a round number of persons to each representative.
Yet the form of the limitation was doubtless influenced
also by a desire to open the way for an increase in the size
of the House as the population of the country grew.
Until long after the fathers of the Constitution had passed off
the stage, this method was followed without hesitation or challenge.
When the change to the Vinton method, or method of a computed
ratio, was made, it was not from dissatisfaction with the method
of an assumed ratio! in the form it took after 1840. The main


### ---Economics-1916-0-08.txt---
motives for the change were a desire to end the rapid increase in
the size of the House of Representatives and a desire to withdraw
a vexatious and contentious question from the arena of public discussion.
The way was not then open, as it is now, for accomplishing
either purpose if the method of an assumed ratio was retained.
There are two serious difficulties with the results of the Vinton
method. It often results in a major fraction which does not entitle
the state to another representative; it sometimes results in two
consecutive tables in which the total size of the House differs by
one, but in the larger House the number of members from some
state is one less. The latter possibility first came prominently before
Congress in the tables p!repared in 1881, which showed that
if the House had 299 members Alabama was entitled to 8, but if
it had 300 members Alabama was entitled to only 7. Hence this
anomaly has come to be known at the "Alabama paradox." When
Congress has faced the rejection of one or more major fractions
under the Vinton method, it has assigned new members for those
fractions in defiance of the method's requirements. When it has
faced the Alabama paradox, it has avoided the difficulty by choosing
another table from the series. Thus neither of these anomalies
has occurred in any actual apportionment.
Under the system of an assumed ratio the number of representatives
in a state depends upon the initial ratio and the population
of the state, and not at all upon the population of any other state
or of the country. Thus, if serious errors had crept into the
enumeration of any state and been discovered after an apportionment
law had been passed, and if the method of an assumed ratio
had been used, the errors would have affected only the state in
which they occurred, but if the Vinton method had been used they
might have affected other states.

The only way in which the method of major fractions in the
form used in 1840 and revived in 1900 failed to meet the needs
of Congress was that it couild not furnish for the scrutiny of
members a series of tables, each apportioning one more representative
than its predecessor. The improvement introduced in
1910 resulted in removing that difficulty. To explain the innovation
we must return for a moment to events in the winter of
1900-1901. When the Census Office began the preparation of
apportionment tables from the figures of the Twelfth Census, it
decided to employ all the methods which had ever been used. For
this purpose two sets of tables were constructed, one following the


### ---Economics-1916-0-09.txt---
Vinton method, the other following the method of an assumed
ratio in its two forms, rejecting all fractions and rejecting only
minor fractions. In preparing the second set of tables the divisors
were successive multiples of 500. But a change of 500 in the
divisor did not regularly change the number of representatives by
one. Often no change, often a chanige of two, occasionally one
of three appeared, and in only one third of the cases did the results
of successive tables differ by one representative. Of the two
numbers of representatives most considered by Congress, 357 and
386, the former being the existing number and the latter the smallest
number under which no state would lose a representative,
neither occurred in the second series of tables, following the
method of major fractions. Nevertheless, in its decision Congress
showed indirectly but convincingly its preference for that method,
by selecting the Vinton table for 384 members and adding two
representatives for major fractions which, in the table, received no
such consideration. Evidently Congress needed a series of tables
meeting two requirements, each table apportioning one more representative
than its predecessor and every maj or fraction entitling
the state where it occurred to an additional representative;
had sought to meet these conditions by translating the results
of the Vinton method into those of the method of major fractions;
and to do so had broken with the principle on which the Vinton
method rests.

To understand how the needs of Congress were met in 1910 we
may start with a divisor of six million, which is contained in New
York State's population of nine million 1.5 times. Under the
method of major fractions a divisor of six million would assign
New York two members and every other state one. Let the divisor
be reduced unit by unit and each of the series of quotients will
slowly increase; when the divisor falls to about five million, the quotient
for Pennsylvania rises above 1.5 and that state becomes entitled
to a second representative. Let the divisor continue to fall;
at about three and three fourths million Illinois becomes entitled
to a second representative, and at three and two thirds million
New York becomes entitled to a third. By continuing this process
a House of any desired size may be apportioned under the method
of maj or fractions. To determine at what ratio the claim of
any state to any specified number of members matures and to
arrange the ratios for the several states, boundary ratios, as
I have ventured to call them, in one series following the order of


### ---Economics-1916-0-10.txt---
decreasing size is a simple problem of elementary mathematics.4
Then, by assuming as a ratio for division any number between two
consecutive boundary ratios, an apportionment table may be
constructed which will distribute one more representative than a
table constructed by the use of any ratio lying between the next
larger pair of boundary ratios. The tables which result lack no
characteristic mentioned as desirable and have no characteristic
mentioned as undesirable in the congressional debates of the last
eighty years. They were accepted in 1911 without any opposition
in committee, House, or Senate.

Here the case might be rested and a verdict awaited. But before
the bar of theory, or in the judgment of an Association like ours,
the verdict of Congress will not be conclusive. I turn, therefore,
to an examination of the theoretical advantages and disadvantages
of the two competing methods.

The Vinton method starts with an assumed number of representatives
and divides the constitutional population of the United
States by that number to determine the ratio. This step involves
a fundamental theoretical error. It overlooks the crucial fact that.
seats in the House of Representatives are of two classes, the 48,
one for each state, which are guaranteed by the Constitution and
are as completely beyond the control of Congress as the seats of
the Senators are, and the remainder, the number and distribution
of which are under congressional control. The two classes might
be named the apportionable and the unapportionable seats. The
fact that they are not individually distinguishable has apparently
been responsible for the failure to recognize their existence.
To get this theoretical requirement clearly in mind it may be
helpful to think of the seats in the House of Representatives as
numbered. The first 48 seats, one for each state, would be numbered
one to indicate that there is no basis for distinguishing between
them. The next seat, numbered 49, would be apportioned
to New York, number 50 to Pennsylvania, and so on.
If the first represeintative falling to Pennsylvania or New York is
as irrelevant or disturbing a factor for determining the ratio as
the single representative falling to Nevada or Wyoming, then
clearly the ratio cannot be found by dividing the constitutional
population of the United States by the number of representatives.
Nor have I been able to discover any other way by which the population


### ---Economics-1916-0-11.txt---
to one representative can be coinputed from the population
of each state and the size of the House.
The effect of this false start is felt in certain anomalies or paradoxes
to which the Vinton method gives rise.

A method theoretically sound should apply equally well to the
entire range of possibilities whether of interest to Congress or not.
The smallest possible House would consist of 49 members, 48 unapportionable
and one apportionable, the last obviously going to
New York. But if the population of the country is divided by 49
and the population of each state divided by the quotient, as the
Vinton method prescribes, New York and Pennsylvania would
receive four members apiece, even if no fractions were recognized,
and only 41 members would remain to be apportioned among the
other 46 states. Near the lower limit of possibilities the Vinton
method yields results which are obviously absurd.
A method theoretically sound should never produce the Alabama
paradox; under the Vinton method this paradox frequently occurs.
In 1901 the majority of the House Committee on the Census recommended
that there should be no increase in the size of the House,
its number at the time being 357. But in the set of tables we prepared
under the Vinton method Colorado received two representatives
with a House of 357 or 358 members and three not merely
for every higher number but also for every lower number down to
350, where the series of tables began. It was more than difficult,
it was impossible, to persuade the House that these results were
equitable, and its dissatisfaction with them had no little influence
upon its decision to reject the report of the majority and accept
that of the minority, substituting another number and table from
which the Alabama paradox was absent.

A method theoretically sound must be reversible. Thus, if the
House is to contain 4J5 members, that result might be approached
either by adding representatives seriatim from the minimum of
48 or by withdrawing them from some number much above 435. A
method proposed by Seaton and endorsed by Walker in 1882 was
tested by Congress far enough to show that it uniformly favored
the populous states and was incontinently rejected on that ground.
But if the same method had been reversed and the result approached
by successive subtractions rather than successive additions,
the outcome would have been just as definitely favorable to
the small states.

A method theoretically sound should hold the balance true between


### ---Economics-1916-0-12.txt---
the large and the small ;states. That the Vinton method
has a tendency, slight but persistent, to over-represent the large
states is demonstrable. The tendency may be illustrated by the
difference between the results of the two methods applied to 357
members. The Vinton method of 1900 gave Colorado and Florida
each 2 representatives, while the method of major fractions gave
them 3; the Vinton method gave Michigan 12 and Texas 15,
while the method of major fractions gave Michigan 11 and Texas
14. Which is correct? The standard is the assumed or computed
ratio, the two differing slightly but each indicating 48 representatives
to 10,000,000 people. If each of the small states received
3 seats, their ratio would be 56 to 10,000,000, an excess of 8;
if each received 2, their ratio would be 38 to 10,000,000, a
shortage of 10. Obviously the result giving each of them 3,
reached by the method of major fractions, is "as near as may be."
Obviously, too, the Vinton method results in under-representing
the small states.

For the populous states the outcome depends upon whether the
assumed or the computed ratio is made the standard. If the assumed
ratio is accepted, then to apportion the smaller numbers to
the populous states gives to those states ratios nearer the standard,
but if the computed ratio is accepted, there is a very slight balance
in favor of the larger numbers. Even if the computed ratio is used,
however, the net balance tips in favor of assigning the two seats in
question to the smaller states. The result is confirmed by examining
the figures for each state separately. Our analysis of this
examiple, then, shows that the Vinton method unjustly, and therefore
unconstitutionally, under-represents the small states and
over-represents the large ones. These results might be confirmed,
if there were time, by making a similar examination of the apportionment
of 386 seats in 1900 under the two methods. It would
show also that the apportionment of 386 seats by the method of
major fractions gives exactly the results which Congress secured
illegitimately, as we then believed, by starting with the Vinton table
for 384 and adding two for disregarded major fractions. This is
an indication that the instinctive judgment of Congress guided
them to the right goal although they started on a wrong road.
A method theoretically sound should establish the balancing
point between two consecutive numbers of seats, or the size of
the fraction entitling the state to another seat, at the middle
point or arithmetic mean and not at the geometric mean. This


### ---Economics-1916-0-13.txt---
is a necessary corollary of the preceding position, but needs especial
mention, because the use of the geometric mean has recently
been advocated. To use it, however, not merely would run counter
to the unvarying conviction of Congress that every major fraction
gives a valid claim to another seat, it would also result in
defeating the main object of the Constitution, which is to hold the
scales even between the small and the large states. For the use of
the geometric mean inevitably favors the small state. If it were
necessary to favor either group, the large states might be entitled
to more consideration in the IHouse, because the small states are
favored in the Senate. But, fortunately, there is no need to favor
either.

As a question of pure mathematical theory, apart from all
consideration of motive and from all practical arguments about
the judgment of Congress, I find no unanimity of expert opinion in
favor of the geometric mean. I have laid the problem before two
meetings of the Mathematical Club at Cornell University, and,
although no vote was taken, I inferred from the discussion that
there was a preponderance of opinion in favor of the arithmetic
mean. Thus the theoretical arguments of statists and mathematicians
point to the same conclusion to which Congress had already
been brought by other considerations and establish my thesis, that
the method of major fractions is the correct and constitutional
miethod of apportionment.

The House of Representatives is now more than six times its
size before the first census and four times its size immediately after
that. Within the half century since the only law passed with a
design to check its growth was last put in force, it has increased by
more than four fifths. While it has been thus expanding, no similar
change, I believe, has occurred in any other representative
assembly in this or any other country, with perhaps the exception
of the lower House in Austria, where the conditions are unique.
If its present rate of growth should continue for another century,
the House would include about 1,400 members. Such an
expansion is unlikely and perhaps in the interest of efficiency the
increase ought soon to slacken or to stop. From this point of
view the change made in 1911 gains new importance. It is now
possible for Congress to prescribe, in advance of an approaching
census, how many members the House shall contain, to ask the
Secretary of Commerce to prepare a table apportioning just that


### ---Economics-1916-0-14.txt---
number in accordance with the method of major fractions, and to
report the result to Congress or to announce it by executive proclaination.
The experiment which was tried in 1850 and 1860 and
which then failed, partly because of inherent defects of method
which have since been overcome, and partly because of problems,
no longer important, which arose out of the rapid admission of new
states and the absence of many members during the Civil War, can
now be repeated with more chance of success. As the House is
larger by four fifths than it was in 1856 and rapidly growing,
the arguments against further increase are stronger.
With a firm grasp of the elements of the problem and a century
of experience revealing what Congress regards as the essentials of
a sound method, the chance of meeting the conditions are better.
Ere long the pressure of opinion within or without the halls of
Congress is likely to result in a renewal of the effort to fix the size
of the House unalterably. If that effort is made, the removal of
the teclnical difficulties to which your attention has been called
this evening will have smoothed the path toward success and have
made it more likelv that when the change is again introduced it
will be permanent.
 ## Economics-1917-0


### ---Economics-1917-0-01.txt---
least appreciated passages in The W ealth of Nations. Apropos
of systems of land tenure the passage reads: "When land, like
movables, is considered as the means oonly of subsistence and enjoyment,
the natural law of succession divides it, like them, among
all the children of the family; of all of wlhom the subsistence and
enjoyment may be supposed to be equally dear to the father....
But wlhen land was considered as the means, not of subsistence
merely, but of power and protection, it was thought better that it
should descend undivided to one."1

IJere was a clear recognition of one of the most important principles
of national policy. When a nation is thinking primarily of
its own growth, prosperity, and power, of its ability to meet the
conditions of life as a nation, its institutions and its policies may
be very different from what -they would be if it were thinking
primarily of the consumers' satisfactions or of the enjoyment
which it might afford to its individual citizens. It may be added
that when its individual citizens themselves are thinking primarily
of the prosperity, power, and greatness of the nation they will
frame institutions and carry out policies very different from those
which they will frame and carry out if they are thinking primarily
of their own satisfaction as consumers, or of their own subsistence
or enjoyment. AMoreover, if economists, however completely they
may be divorced from sentimenlt, are thinking in terms primarily
of national prosperity, power, and greatness, their conclusions on
many important questions will be very different from wlhat they
would be if they were thinking primarily of consumers' satisfactions,
of subsistence, or of enjoyment. The economics of consumers'
happiness is one thing; the economics of national power tind
greatness is another thing.

Adam Smith's remarks on primogeniture may or ma y not be a
case in point. We may or may not agree that primogeniture does
work better in the process of nation-building and expansion thilan
equal subdivision. As was remarked long ago, it was at least a


### ---Economics-1917-0-02.txt---
guarantee that there would be only one drone in the same family.
It at least made it necessary that the younger sons go out into
the world and shift for themselves. They were not encouraged to
hang around home waiting for the old folk to die in order that
they might get a share of the estate. They had to go where there
was land and build estates of their own, if they wanted them. This
may have had something to do with the expansion of the English
race and of the British Empire. On the other hand, in those old
countries where the Code Napoleon had been in force there has
been little expansion. Relatively speaking, there has been a decline
in power both economic and military.

And yet, to anyone who thinks mainly in termis of consumers'
satisfactions, of fair play and equal rights in matters of enjoyment,
primogeniture seems a monstrous iniquity, and the equal
subdivision of land among all heirs is the only system which is
even tolerable. Of course there may be those who realize that it
is better for the individual to belong to a prosperous, powerful,
and expanding nation than to an unprosperous, weak, and contracting
nation. This consideration might lead them to surrender
niany consumers' satisfactions in the immediate present in the
interest of nation-building, hoping that they, their children or
their childrens' children may gain enough consumers' satisfactions
in the future to compensate for the sacrifices of the present. This
would bring them very close to those who think primarily in terms
of nation-building, if it did not identify them absloutely. They
might, even though they themselves were younger sons, favor
primogeniture if they were convinced that it pronioted the prosperity,
power, and expansion of the nation, hoping that their
children and their childrens' children would gain enough through
citizenship in such a country to compensate for the loss to themselves.


This, however, is not intended as a defense of primogeniture.
I use this illustration partly because it was dignified by the great
Adam Smith, and partly because it is, in itself, a good illustration
of the principle which I am trying to make clear. Another illustration,
less realistic and less disputable, may be manufactured
for the occasion. If, instead of the father's landed estate, we
were to consider the father's sword as the object which passes by
inheritance, the point may be made clear. If, with the inheritance
of the father's sword, there was also inherited the obligation to
use it for the defense or the building of the nation, it could scarcely


### ---Economics-1917-0-03.txt---
be considered as depriving the other sons of their rights if the
sword went intact to one, instead of being divided up. That
would be so obviously sensible that no one would be likely to champion
the rights of the disinherited sons. But if, instead of a
weapon or a tool to be used in nation-building, the sword were
thouglht of as an object of pleasure, a consumer's good, the case
would be different. They who think in terms of consumers' satisfactions
are uniformly rather strenuous in their insistence upon
their full share. The same rule wlhich seems so obviously sensible
from the other point of view becomes obviously and wickedly unfair
and stupid from the new point of view. The whole difference
is in the point of view.

There is another illustration equally clear and to the point, and
also dignified by an eminent and highly respected authority. It
is found in the story of a certain ruler who entrusted sundry pieces
of money to his servants, to one five, to another two, and to another
one. I-Ie who had received one piece of money did not use
it but hid it away. When the ruler returned lie ordered that this
one piece of money be taken away from the man who had not
used it, anid that it be given to the one who had used his five so
prodluctively as to gain another five. Now, I venture to say that
no one wlho thinks of pieces of money as sources of subsistence or
enjoyment ever understood this story or ever will so long as the
wvorld stands. But one who thinks of pieces of monley as tools to
be use(d in nation-building, finds the story so obviously sensible
as almost to preclude the possibility of discussion. Such a person
can see no reason for inventing the absurd theory that pieces of
money did not mean what they obviously did mean, but spiritual
qualities instead. lHe would know that it is a waste of good tools
to h-ave them hidden away, and that in the interest of society or
of the nation they ought to be taken away from the one who thus
wastes them and given to the one who shows his capacity to use
them productively. However, to one who thinks only or primarily
in terms of consumers' satisfactions, and to whom pieces of money
are merely sources of consumers' satisfaction, it would seem monstrously
unjust to take away from the poor man the one source
of satisfaction which he possessed and give it over to the rich man
who had ten already. The same rule, again, looks very different
from the two points of view. It is the point of view that makes
the difference.

If one were permitted to step outside the field of economics in
the narrower sense, and m ake an observation- or two in the field


### ---Economics-1917-0-04.txt---
of economics in the broader sense, now temporarily cultivated by
the moralist, one might remark that the concentration of attention
upon subsistence and enjoyment rather than upon nationbuilding,
leads to an exaggerated insistence upon the rights of the
individual, whereas the concentration of attention upon nationbuilding
leads to a strong emphasis upon the obligations of the
individual. Therefore, there are two distinct types of leadership.
One type tells the people a great deal about their rights, their
wrongs, and their grievances, and very little about their obligaLions,
except their obligations to -themselves. The other type tells
them very little about their rights, their wrongs, and their grievances,
but a great deal about their obligations. The first type is
a logical product of the habit of mind which lays enmphasis upon
the subsistence and enjoyment of the individual; the other of the
habit of mind which lays emphasis upon the importance of building
a strong, durable, and expanding nation.
The fact that a chlange in the point of view makes such a vast
difference in the way the same thing looks to us will also explain
the clhange which frequently comes over a man when he has,
through popular lecadership, come into a position of power and
responsibility. It has often been noticed that a man wlho has
achieved leadership through demagogic appeals to the masses becomes
a different minan when put into high public position. If he
does not, he does not last long, being repudiated even by the followers
who put him in. As a champion of those who think in
terms of their own subsisteiice and enjoyment, he was one kind of
man and things re-ally looked to hirn in a certain way. Jn high
national oftice he is compelled to think in terms of the nation as a
whole. If he does not, he is such an obvious misfit that even the
sense of humor of the masses can not tolerate him. If he does,
many things which formerly looked black now look white and many
which looked white now look black. It is very easy for the conservative,
on the one hand, to say that responsibility hlas sobered
him. He has not necessarily grown more sober; frequently he is
less so. He is usually even more of a visionary, the difference being
that he has got a larger vision. It is equally easy, on the
other hand, for those who have not yet achieved high office to say
that he has sold out to the interests. Generally he is less under
the domination of interests than he was before. The simple fact
is that he is forced to see things from a national point of view
rather than from a particularistic point of view; and the sheer


### ---Economics-1917-0-05.txt---
logic of the situation forces different views and a different attitude
upon him.

The change in the point of view produces some of its widest
divergences of opinion on the question of government regulation
and control. When we think primarily in terms of our own satisfactions
we are rather intolerant of government regulation when
it affects us directly. We may be very tolerant of, or favorable
toward, government regulation of other people; but as for ourselves,
we want none of it. We are all consumers, therefore regulation
of consumption is abhorent. The regulation or control of
some particular line of business is a different matter, especially if
it is not our business. Yet habits of consumption are quite as
important to the welfare of the nation, considered as a nation, as
methods of business. It is generally believed that nations have
deteriorated quite as frequently and quite as rapidly because
of their bad habits of consumption as because of the bad methods
of any or of all classes of business men. When one takes the
national point of view, that is a consideration of the verv greatest
importance. Those academic distinctions between regulation of
consumption and regulation of production seem trivial in comparison.
As a matter of observed fact, the people who think in
terms of nationality are just as prone to legislate on matters of
consumption as on matters of business. The government regulation,
or prohibition, of the consumptioni of alcohol, is quite the
most popular and democratic movement in this country today,
particularly among those who have been here long enough to develop
a sense of nationality. Again, as a matter of observed fact,
whenever a nation is, in the vernacular, "up against the real
thing," when its very existence as a nation is at stake, and when
it is forced to think in terms of nationality, it always finds it just
as necessary that its government should regulate consumption- as
that it should regulate production.

Another and even nmore striking examnple of this divergence of
opinion is found in our attitude toward control or regulation of
speech. I inake my living by talking, as do a fair percentage of
the active members of this Association. We are therefore unable,
most of us, to see any reason why the government should regulate
our business. We are pretty strong for freedom of speech andl
freedom of the press and all other euphemisms for a laissez-faire
policy with respect to the business of talking. It also happens,
curiously enough, that they whose business is talking are the
strongest advocates of the abandonment of the laissez-faire policy


### ---Economics-1917-0-06.txt---
-with respect to business--that is, other kinds of business. For
much the same reason, they whose business consists in doing rather
than in talking are too frequently impatient of loose talk and disposed
toward its control. It would be a profitable exercise for all
of us to ponder a little more upon the ancient remark about those
who were more anxious to pluck motes from their brothers' eyes
than beams from their own. That would do us more good than
to spend our time inventing absurd reasons why the government
should regulate other people's business and pursue a laissez-faire
policy with respect to our own.

There can scarcely be any doubt that bad talk may do quite as
much harm to the nation as bad business. As many and as direful
calamities have come upon the world through bad talk, false
teaching, pernicious opinions, as through bad business methods.
He who teaches falsehood probably harms the people more than
he who steals a million dollars, though it will appear otherwise to
those who think that truth is unimportant and money all important.
The only question is, Can we trust government officials with
the delicate task of deciding what is good and what is bad talk,
and of suppressing the bad? Well, any government official who
thinks that he is wise enough to regulate industry is not likely to
be withheld by his own modesty from undertaking the regulation
of speech. Again, as a matter of observed fact, no government
official does hesitate to exercise censorship so far as his authority
extends. Over the members of his own staff, which is as far as
his power extends, he does exercise control of speech. Even the
least free and most narrowly sectarian college in this country allows
more freedom to its staff than the most liberal department of
this freest of all governments. The head of a department who
is at all ingenuous will frankly acknowledge this, and justify it
by the perfectly sound reason that any department which is
charged with important regulatory powers must control the utterances
of its staff. I mention these things neither to justify nor
to condemn, but merely to show that one kind of regulation is
very likely to lead to another.

Again, as a matter of observed fact, whenever any nation
"comes up against the real thing," when circumstances compel it
to think in terms of its own existence as a nation, it finds it necessary,
through its government, to control both speech and industry-
the one quite as rigorously as the other. Again, if you
will name the country which in time of peace most thoroughly


### ---Economics-1917-0-07.txt---
regulates business and industry, you will name also the country
which most rigorously regulates speech.

These may be mere coincidences, but they are so numerous as
to create a presumption that the nation that definitely abandons
a laissez-faire policy with respect to one branch of human activity
is not likely to preserve it with respect to all others. Talkers may,
of course, easily invent reasons for placing the business of talking
in a different category from other businesses. I could state a
dozen such reasons myself, and an equal number to the contrary.
But the practical statesman and man of affairs, whatever he may
have said in a political campaign, is singularly indifferent to these
theoretical distinctions when he faces a real situation.
Please do not understand this as an argument for a laissez-faire
policy with respect to production, consumption, or speech. It is
as much against as for such a policy. The important point is
that whatever policy is pursued with respect to one is likely also
to be pursued with respect to the others. We are already beginning
to hear about the changed attitude of governments toward
industry brought about by the war in Europe. Some are speculating
as to the results of this changed attitude after the war is
over. Let us not close our eyes to the fact that the change in
the attitude of those governments toward consumption, toward
speech, and toward everything else which affects the national wellbeing
is quite as great and quite as striking as the change in their
attitude toward industry. They have founld that vicious habits
of consumption and hostile expressions of opinion are quite as
dangerous to the well-being of the nation as bad business methods.
When we begin to think in terms of nationality we shall all discover
the same thing.

The statement that one function of government is to protect
the weak against the strong is another product of the particularist
point of view. Since most of us are weak rather than strong,
we doubtless feel that we should get more individual advantage
from a government which followed that rule than from one which
did not. Even those who occupy a middle position between the
weak and the strong feel that they have more to fear from the
strong than from the weak; therefore they would be inclined, if
they sought their own advantage, to cast in their lot with the
weak. But if we are thinking not primarily how much profit we
of this generation can get from the government, but how the nation
may grow strong and endure, it would seem rather absurd,
would it not, to protect the weak against the strong? To protect


### ---Economics-1917-0-08.txt---
weakness against strength is to favor weakness and bid it multiply
and replenish the nation. That is one way of building a weak
natioll. It would obviously be better to protect strength against
weakness. As a matter of fact, that comes more nearly being
the policy of any country worth living in than the opposite.
Criminals are weak rather than strong. Somewhere between thirty
and fifty per cenL of them are feeble minded. It is found economical
to protect strength against that kind of weakness at least.
However, the aim of the niation-builder should be neither to protect
weakness against strength, nor primiiarily to protect strength
against weakness. The obvious thing to do is to protect production
against predation, usefulness against harmfulness, virtue
against vice. Whether the predacious act is performed by a
strong or a weak individual does not matter. It must be repressed
in either case. Whether the productive act be performed by a
weak or a strong individual does not matter; it must be protected
in eitlher case. Only thus can the nation grow strong, prosperous,
and fit to survive in the stern rivalry, economic or military,
among national groups.

One of the widest of these divergences of economic opinion, depending
upon the point of approach, is found in the answers to
the question as to how wealth ought to be distributed. From the
point of view of those who are interested primarily in consumers'
satisfactions, especially in the satisfactions of those consumers
who are now living and possessed of voices with which to clamor
for their share, there is much to be said in favor of some approach
to equality of possessions. The weak producers probably have on
the aNverage as muclh capacity for consumers' enjoyment as the
stronig producers. Certainly no very satisfactory argument to the
contrary has yet been presented. If the maximum of consumors'
satisfaction is the object to be sought, the weight of the argumeiit
is in favor of somne approach to equality. It is demonstrated
that among people with equal capacity for enjoyment equality of
consumption yields the maximum satisfaction. It is true that
some concession would have to be made in favor of the strong
producer provided it were found that he would not put forth his
maximum effort unless he received special rewards. Unless the
strong producers did put forth their best efforts at production,
there would be fewer consumers' goods and consequently less consumers'
satisfactions. It would therefore be necessary to allow
the strong producers just enough in the way of special rewards


### ---Economics-1917-0-09.txt---
to iinduce them to use their powers. Aside from such considerations,
the weight of the argument is in favor of some form of
comnmnunism.

From the point of view, however, of those who are primarily
interested in nation-building, the weight of the arguinent is in
favor of distributing wealth in proportion to productive power,
regardless of ability to consume joyfully. In the first place,
they who have shown the ability to accumulate capital by consurning
less than their income are to be considered better guardianis
of that accumulation than they who have not shown such
capacity or willingness. If it were turned over to those who have
been in the habit of consuming all they had, there would be a
strong probability that they would consume it and not conserve it.
In the long run, it is pretty certain that the nation whiclh accumulates
capital most rapidly is the nation which grows most rapidly
in property and power. It is a rather noticeable fact that even
laborers tend to leave those countries where capital does not accumulate
and seek those countries where it does accumulate. So
likewise do scholars, writers, and talkers.
Again, to invest capital is to direct the prodtuctive power of the
community. They who direct that productive power wisely, that
is, they who invest in such a way as to make it yield a large product,
are economizing the productive power of the community. On
the other hand, they who misdirect that power, who invest unwisely,
who direct productive power in channels where it is not
needed-in such a way as to produce less than is used up in the
process-are wasting the productive power of the community. It
is much better for the nation that the accumulations of capital
be invested by those who can do it wisely and productively than
that these accumulations should be invested by wasters, that is,
by those who invest them where capital is not needed or in ways
which use up more than is produced. In the long run, it is safe
to say that the country which manages to put its accumulated
capital under the control of the wisest investors is the country
which will grow most rapidly in prosperity and power. To such
a country even laborers will desire to migrate, and so also will
scholars, writers, and talkers. In other words, it is better for all
of us, in the long run, that accumulated capital should be distributed
in proportion to investing ability than that it should be
distributed in proportion to the power of graceful, elegant, or
even jovial consumption. "To each according to his ability to


### ---Economics-1917-0-10.txt---
use productively, to manage, or to invest," should be the slogan
rather than "to each according to his needs."
If I have succeeded in making it clear that it makes a difference
with our conclusions on many questions of economic theory
and policy whether we start from the national or from the particularist
point of view, my next purpose is to plead for the
national point of view. This point of view is especially needed at
the present time because so many weighty opinions are being expressed
against it. Tolstoi pronounced patriotism to be a vice.
One of the leading moralists of the country has said that nationalism
is one of his pet abominations, having in mind the situation in
Europe at the present time. It is doubtless wrong for a people
to make war under the stimulus of national arrogance; but his
philosophy would make it equally wrong for a nation to fight to
defend its territory or even its existence against the attacks of
national arrogance. It may be said, in behalf of his consistency,
that the moralist just quoted accepts the latter proposition along
with the former. National existence is not worth fighting for under
his theory. From that point of view, Horace Greely's advice
regarding the secession movement was profoundly wise, "Let the
erring sisters depart in peace." There were many in those days
to whom national unity did not seem worth fighting for, and who
opposed the war on that ground. From the particularist point of
view it would be a little difficult to state what class in the North
had a definite economnic interest in the question, or how the nonslave
owning majority in the South had anything at stake.
Neither the laboring classes nor the business and professional
classes were in visible danger of having their incomes reduced.
All classes then living could, so far as any one has ever been able
to show, have consumed as much had the country split up as if it
remained united. The only class that might have suffered economically
was the government officials. They would have ruled
over a smaller country, and the salaries might conceivably have
been smaller, though even this is by no means certain. To be sure,
there were certain large but vague questions regarding the distant
future which may have weighed heavily on the minds of men.
Had the country split then, it was difficult to see where the particularist
tendency would end. The possibility that at some distant
day their descendants would suffer from the weakness of a
divided country may have had its influence; but such considerations
do not have much weight except with those who have what


### ---Economics-1917-0-11.txt---
is called a national consciousness. There was barely enough of
this to save the day against the indifference of the particularists
of the North and the opposition of the secessionists of the South.
The little flame of national sentiment had to be nursed and coaxed
by the persuasive force and mnagnetic personality of the greatest
of all popular leaders.

A distinguished sentimentalist, who can scarcely be dignified by
the name of moralist, has recently said before a large body of
laboring men in New York that even in case of a military invasion
of this country the laboring men would have no interest at stake
and no motive for supporting a defensive war. Quoting the Communist
Manifesto, she exclaimed that the laboring men had "nothing
to lose but their chains." Anyone who believes that believes
that laboring men are swine, that they have no interest beyond
a full belly and a short working day,-that they have no souls.
I refuse to believe it.

If one begins the inquiry as to how incomes and dinner-pails
would be affected by foreign domination, why stop with the laboring
men? They certainly lhave as much to lose as any other class.
Suppose that we were to submit quietly to foreign occupancy, and
the taking over of the government at Washington by a foreign
power, who among us would suffer any diminution of income or of
consumers' satisfactions? It is unlikely that our business men
would suffer as a class. In fact, there is no foreign government
which is strong enough to attempt a conquest which does not treat
business men quite as well as our government, which does not protect
life and property and repress mob violence rather more effectively
than our government is in the habit of doing.
Again, so far as the economic self-interest of those now before
me is concerned, it is difficult to see how you as a class would be
economically injured if another government sent an army and took
possession of our capital and ran its machinery. In any country
which is strong enough to attempt such a thing, scholarship stands
higher, and scholars are better treated, than in this country. If
you have no interest beyond your own incomes and consumers'
satisfactions, why should any of you bestir yourselves to repel
an invasion? And yet, with this argument fully in mind, I venture
to say that at least ninety-nine out of a hundred, even of your
class, would bestir themselves and make considerable sacrifices to
prevent such a thing from happening. The hundredth, if there be
one, would be about as popular as a copperhead was in the North


### ---Economics-1917-0-12.txt---
at the end of the Civil War. The ninety and nine would be
tempted to classify him as a white-livered scoundrel. While the
idea might be correct, the nomenclature would not be strictly
scientific. It would be better to call him the kind of philosopher
to whom nationality is a pet abomination.
There is, however, one small class who alone would lose heavily
by a foreign conquest. This class is made up of sundry gentlemen
in Washington and various other capitals now holding jobs and
receiving salaries which, though not large, are as a rule larger
than those same gentlemen could earn elsewhere. They would
most certainly be turned adrift and their places filled by representatives
of the conquering power. If nobody cared except they
who had something to lose in the way of income, these gentlemen
would naturally be most vitally interested. They who think and
talk only in terms of full dinner-pails and easy hours would doubtless
say that these gentlemen were merely afraid of losing their
jobs.

But should the rest of us care? We should. We do not look
cynically upon those gentlemen merely as the holders of easy jobs
and the receivers of fat salaries, though their jobs and their incomes
do undoubtedly mean as much to them as ours do to us.
We look upon them rather as trustees of our national interests
and the agents for the carrying out of our national aspirations.
The sentiment of nationality is as real as hunger, thirst, or
family affection, and like them it supplies us with a motive which
impels us to a proper functioning. Indeed, there is a pretty close
parallelism between family sentiment and national sentiment as a
motive for functioning. To one who possesses neither it would
appear rather stupid to deprive one's self of consumers' satisfactions
merely to provide means for the support of a family. A
man whose interests do not extend beyond a full belly and a short
working day would see no reason why he should sacrifice these
interests merely in order that his species might survive. The
number of men who desert their families and the larger number
who have no families at all, are proof that there are considerable
numbers who reason that way. There may be some moral philosophers
among them to whom family sentiment is a pet abomination.
Why should not a sentimentalist of the same shallow type as the
one referred to above advise all such men not to sacrifice anything
for such an absurd sentiment as family affection, telling them that
they have "nothing to lose but their chains."


### ---Economics-1917-0-13.txt---
However, it would probably not be'very difficult to convince the
average audience that family affection really has a place in the
economy of nature. It seems to supply a motive which leads men
to do what would, without it, be contrary to their individual or
particular interests, in favor of the interest of the species. The
future members of our race have a vital interest in what we do,
but they have no voice to persuade us, or bribe to offer us. They
have, nevertheless, an advocate with us, to appeal powerfully to
our wills to persuade us to do what is necessary for their salvation.
That persuasive advocate is domesticity.
It seems to have been pretty well demonstrated that the human
race succeeds better when it hunts in packs or works in groups
than when it hunts or works as individuals. In the long run, the
well-being of the species seems to depend about as definitely upon
the existence of some large group, variously called state or nation,
as upon the small group called the family. Without a sentiment
of nationality it would be about as difficult to preserve the larger
group as it would be to preserve the smaller group without a sentiment
of domesticity. They who lack national sentiment find it as
difficult to frame arguments in favor of sacrificing individual for
national interests as they who lack family sentiment find it to
frame arguments in favor of sacrificing individual for family interests.
In neither case do men find themselves wise enough or virtuous
enough to safeguard the future interests of mankind. Lacking
these sentiments, they build only as well as they know; possessing
them, they build better than they know.

Even though we possess the family sentiment, few of us are wise
enough to plan as wisely for our descendants three generations in
the future as we do for ourselves. None of us is wise enough to
plan for those who are to live a hundred, or even ten, generations
hence. The feebleness and shortsightedness of the intellect is here
supplemented by the generous sentiment of nationality. It is
through this sentiment that we are led, "as by an invisible hand,"
to safeguard the interests of that vast majority which never votes
for the excellent reason that it is not born yet. Without this
sentiment we should each of us join in the query, What has posterity
ever done for me that I should do anything for posterity?
Self-interest, even when widened so as to include one's own immediate
flesh and blood, will not lead us to safeguard the interests
of that vast unborn majority. The sentiment of nationality,
the love of country, pride in its growth and prosperity, the desire


### ---Economics-1917-0-14.txt---
to see it grow and hold an honorable place among the nations of
the earth, these are the salvation of those voiceless generations
whose prosperity and happiness for centuries to come depend upon
what we do here and now.

It must be admitted, however, that there are perversions of the
national sentiment as there are perversions of hunger, thirst, and
sex. But it ought not to be difficult to distinguish between the
perversion of an instinct and the instinct itself. "Does not war
proceed from national sentiment?" is sometimes asked by the men
and women who have forgotten, if they ever knew, that wars were
more frequent and more continuous before such a thing as nationality
or national sentiment existed than they are now. It is probably
true, however, that when it does come, a war between highly
organized and powerful nations is more terrific than one between
weak and disorganized hordes with little national consciousness.
If a powerful national sentiment is a factor in building a powerful
and prosperous nation, and saich a nation is therefore capable of
carrying on a terrific war, there may then be said to be a connection
between a strong national sentiment and the terrific character
of a modern war. But shall we surrender the power and prosperity
which come from a compact and well organized national
life, and grow weak and unprosperous, merely in order that we
may not be able to wage war on such a scale and with such destructiveness
as that which the world is now witnessing? Before
a war can be carried on on a vast scale there must be vast power
and resources, both in men and the products of the mind. Before
it can be very destructive there must be something to destroy as
well as something to be used in destruction. To propose to divest
humanity of all national sentiment in order to save it from the
havoc of war is about as reasonable as to divest it of appetite in
order to save it from the perversions of appetite.
"Where there is no vision, the people perish." This is said to
be a bad translation. "Where there is no vision the people become
disorganized, or throw off restraint," is said to be more accurate,
but it may mean much the same thing. If they become
disorganized, if they throw off restraint, if they will not subject
themselves to discipline, they will grow weak. In the eternal process
of trial and rejection, of survival and extinction, by which
every step in progress thus far in this unfinished world has come
about, weakness means death. This applies not to plant and
animal forms alone, but to social institutions, moral systems,


### ---Economics-1917-0-15.txt---
forms of government, tribes and nations of men as well. Can
democracy discipline itself and fit itself to meet this test? If not,
democracy can no more survive than could any of the other thousand
and one organisms that have become extinct through their
inability to meet the conditions. The world has always been ruled
by the disciplined nations, and unless there is a complete reversal
of the process, it will be ruled by them to the end of time. If
democrats can discipline themselves as well as rulers can discipline
their subjects, then democracy may survive; otherwise not.
There is no motive known to any student which will compel a
whole democracy to discipline itself, except a powerful national
sentiment. The individuals must all, with one accord, care and
care intensely for the same thing. This and this alone will enable
each person to subject his interests to the good of the whole, and
the lesser interest of the present to the larger interest of the
future. Only they to whom Webster's words on Union and Liberty
meant something for which they cared considerably were prepared
to hazard their lives for that something. Only they who, like
Milton, see in their minds "a great and puissant nation," have
the vision which keeps men from becoming demoralized, from
throwing off restraint, from becoming undisciplined. Without
this endurance of restraint-without this self-discipline-the people
perish.
 ## Economics-1918-0


### ---Economics-1918-0-01.txt---
The doctrine of laissez faire had a practical and a theoretical
origin. On the practical side was the inefficiency and the autocracy
of government. On the theoretical side, the doctrine of the
Law of Nature and the natural rights of the individual.
It needed no proof in the eighteenth century that government
was incompetent and despotic. The fact stood out in every attempt
of the middle classes to take advantage of the discovery
of America, of the new expansion of markets, and the new inventions
of machinery.

Great Britain, by the accident of her island more than the
theory of her philosophers, proved that, in order to conquer and
settle the New World, to expand her markets, to invent and use
machinery, government does most when it does least. The westward
ho! of Britain's free-booters and discoverers, the eastern
and westward conquests of the Plymouth, the London, the East
India, and other companies of "adventurers"-in short, the private
initiative and private capital of her ungoverned subjectsgave
to England a navy and an empire. Then, when her inventors
and manufacturers escaped from the governmental regulation of
the town gilds to the unregulated open country of Manchester
and Birmingham, it was private initiative and private capital that
gave to England her wealth and a world market.
Finally Adam Smith, borrowing from France the philosophy
of a benevolent law of nature, the rule of Universal Reason, justified
in theory what England had already demonstrated in practice.
And so England, by her happy experiment, got the start of
the rest of Europe by one or two hundred years, but tied herself
to a theory of laissez fatre which assumed that the conditions
would always hold the same. The experiment and its theory have
brought her, indeed, the wealth of nations, but the theory put her
asleep while another experiment and another theory were shaping
themselves to snatch her wealth and perpetuate her sleep.
The theory of the beneficent Law of Nature started from the
hypothesis of both the incompetency and the autocracy of government.


### ---Economics-1918-0-02.txt---
But now we see, not that the hypothesis was false, but
that it was provisional. The most autocratic government remaining
over from the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries of Europe
is the most efficient.

The old theory started, too, with the assumption that power
and liberty are two mutually exclusive and hostile principles in
the life of a nation. Power is the power of despotic government,
the force that gives sanction to the personal decrees of a sovereign-
in short, power is arbitrary coercion. But liberty is
freedom from coercion. It is escape from the power of the state
and refuge in the benevolence of nature. So, liberty is conformity
to the laws of nature; power is violation of nature's law.
But the new theory of Germany starts with the hypothesis that
the power of the state is not a violation, but the ripe fruit and
the evolutionary outcome of the laws of nature. Power is the
rule, not of reason, but of will; and nature is not reason, as it
was to the philosophers of the eighteenth century, but, to the
philosophers of the twentieth century, nature is will, and the highest
will on earth is the will of the state. There are, therefore, no
natural rights of individuals superior to the will of the state, and
consequently no corresponding duties of individuals, no morals,
no ethics, no sanctity of private contracts nor of international
treaties-nothing, indeed, that looks for its validity towards any
so-called law of nature, if that conflicts with the highest law of
nature, which resides in the will of the state.
But this culmination of the will of nature in the will of the
state, with its absorption of private will into political will, requires
something to take the place of liberty. Although liberty
finds no support in a fictitious natural law or natural rights, yet
still the greatest thing that contributes to the power of the state
is this very private initiative, private inventiveness, the energy
of the individual. Sweep away his lnatural rights by substituting
the will of the state for the reason of nature, and there must be
substituted, not indeed that arbitrary coercion which provoked
laissez faire, but such a scientific use of the power of the state,
based on accurate knowledge of hurnan nature, as will lead the
individual to exert himself to the utmost. Abolish liberty, but
substitute inducement. Offer rewards, promotions, distinctions,
honors, bonuses, subsidies, establish technical schools and an educational
system that will oversupply the market for brains.
Obtain the maximnum output of human eneigy for the sake of the


### ---Economics-1918-0-03.txt---
state, with the minimum expenditure from the resources of the
state. Govern the people, not by liberty, but by psychology; not
by reason, but by scientific management; not by laws of nature,
but by inducements to human nature.

So we today are seeing the clash for control of the world between
these two great experiments and their two appropriate
theories. On the one side is laissez faire, keep hands off, the doctrine
that weakens the power of the state to enhance the liberty
of the individual. On the other the doctrine of power that
strengthens the state through scientific and economical management
of individuals.

Whatever the outcome, today is a day of reconstruction-reconstruction
of theory and reorganization of practice.
The underlying theory of all the political and social sciences
is the theory of value. I need not say that economic theory rests
upon the laissez-faire philosophy of Adam Smith and the eighteenth
century. It rests upon the isolated and ungoverned individual
seeking the highest net income for himself. Sociologists,
in recent years, have done much towards devising a social theory
of value, and economists have profited thereby. But there is
needed also a political or juristic theory of value.
The latter has already been rising up out of our American
democracy and the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United
States. In the decisions establishing the power of the state to
make special assessments on account of the value of special benefits;
then in the so-called unit rule of taxation on the total value
of public utility property; then in the quite opposite valuation
of public utilities for purposes of rate regulation; in these and
other decisions peculiar to our American system the Supreme
Court of the United States goes back to a theory of value as a
contest of power between individuals and classes in the community.
A court of law, unlike the economist, begins its theory of value
from the standpoint of two opposing litigants, representing two
opposing classes, with opposing rights and duties, instead of an
isolated individual exploiting niature wlhich is the state without
rights or duties. Out of these contests of legislatures with courts,
and of litigants with litigants, over value as power has come, not
a laissez-faire theory of value resting oni the psychology of business
in a state of nature, but a juristic or political theory of value,
resting on the struggles of American democracy for economic
power and liberty through politics. It is a theory whose starting


### ---Economics-1918-0-04.txt---
points are the constitution, the bills of rights, the definitions of
private property, the sovereignty of the state, and which seeks
its standards of value through notions of equal opportunity,
equality of bargaining power, solidarity of interests, and public
utility.

Again, the American theory of laissez faire springs, not from
the autocracy of government, but from its inefficiency. There
was, in our early history, no effective a priori objection to the
state undertaking anything that the people wanted. But when
the experiments broke downi thlouglh bankrup-tcy the same people
wrote laissez faire into the constitutions.
On the other h-land, our tlheory of natural rights has not been
a theory of laissez faire. It appeared in our Declaration of Independence,
not in order to foreclose anything from governments
controlled by ourselves, but in order to justify our escape from
the autocratic governuient of England. Rather has our theory
of natural rights been a theory of the equal right of anybody to
get all he can out of the government. It did not stand in the
way of a high protective tariff, but rather helped along a logrolling
tariff.

So with ouir natural resources and public domain. The homestead
law and its many collateral timber, desert, and mining acts
were a conclusion from the natural right of anybody to get anything
that belonged to the government. I need only mention
the river and harbor and the public building appropriations.
They, like the tariff, logrolled the taxing power of -the state. And
even the public offices in federal and state governments came to
be the natural and equal right of any individual.
No, our theory of natural rights has not been a laissez-faire
theory of governmenit, but a pork-barrel theory. Not a let-alone
theory but a let's-grab theory. And it is embedded deep in our
every relation to the government, while the river and harbor bills
are its picturesque outcropping.

And this theory was roughly suited to the nineteenth century
of America. It was the century of conquest of Indians and Mexico,
of expansion and occupation westward, of civil war that
centralized power. But, unlike the theory that the state is power
for the sake of more power, it is a theory that the state is power
for the sake of individuals. UTnlike the theory of laissez faire that
the state is a necessary evil, it is a theory that the state is the
political method by which individuals unite to use the sovereign
power for their own purposes.


### ---Economics-1918-0-05.txt---
The weakness of the theory is its i;maturity and its inefficiency.
The pork-barrel theory is not wholly false. It established for the
nilleteenth century the truth, as we see it in America, that the
state exists for the sake of its individuals.
But the theory is a half truth. Nature may endow the individual
with rights, but she does not seem to burden the same
individual with duties. The duties are imposed on other persons.
But if rights proceed, not from nature, but from the state, then the
very act that grants a right imposes an equivalent duty in contemplation
of it. This we now have begun to recognize. The
equivalent duty is not only on other persons to respect the right,
it is on the person who has the riglht to vindicate himself.
This is the missing half of the pork-barrel theory. It was not
missed particularly in the nineteenth century, when those who did
not have rights of property could move west and get them. It is
missed in the twentieth century when those who are short on rights
are compelled to make terms with those who have them. And it
is this other half of the doctrine that has already begun, in the
nineteenth cenitury, to force its way up and to offset both the
natural rights of the individual and the pork-barrrel theory of
the state.

At the very height of the victorious westward sweep of the doctrine
of natural rights, the Supreme Court of the United States,
in the "Granger" railroad cases, went to an extreme limit in
denying it, for, according to that decision, the property of individuals
affected by a public use rests, not on their natural rights,
but on their power to persuade the voters at the elections. Since
that time almost every class of property, in one direction or another,
has become affected by a public use and the election returns.
Along with these decisions have come those which established
the so-called unit rule of taxation. A public utility corporation
is no longer assessed merely on its physical property, such as
buildings, lands, and houses, but on the capitalized value of its
total earning power as a unit-on the market value of its stock
and bonds.

Likewise with the theory of assessment for special benefits.
This peculiarly American doctrine springs from the instinctive
practice of American democracy. When a local governmenta
city, town, or village-constructs a public improvement, say
a street or a highway, the cost of construction may be assessed,
not against all of the taxpayers, but against those whose property


### ---Economics-1918-0-06.txt---
is especially augmented in value by the improvement. The special
assessment, as pointed out by T. S. Adams, is a kind of excessprofits
tax. It is a tax on the unearned increment, and large
sums of money for public improvements are raised in this way.
In every case of a public improvement we see a contest, or at
least a contrast, between the special-benefit theory and the porkbarrel
theory. The state and federal governments are still in
the pork-barrel stage. Rivers, harbors, and public buildings are
paid for out of taxes upon the nation as a whole, instead of by
assessments on the local real estate owners who are benefited.
These three classes of decisions regarding the value of property
have changed the definition of property itself. Property is no
longer the eighteenth century notion of holding a physical thing
exclusively for one's own use, but property is value; value is power
over others; and the court protects not necessarily the unregulated
market value, but the reasonable value of property, against
confiscation by the voters.

The political and judicial contests of the future, as in the
recent past, turn on the power of the state and the power of
private property; and their issue is the kind and extent of state
control over the values of private property. It is this issue that
is forced upon us more acutely by the world war.
In the westward movement of our population during the eighteenth
and nineteenth centuries, the pioneers and settlers were
led on, not mainly by the expectation of daily earnings, but by the
expectation of future increments of land value. The pioneers
were speculators. The same principle underlies all business. The
so-called watered stock which promoters and financiers give to
themselves and sell to others in starting a business is their claim
to the speculative value, which they expect the business eventually
to make good. Without this speculative element, in one form
or another, private enterprise will not take hold of an investment.
But speculation acquired a new importance in the latter part
of the nineteenth century. During three-quarters of the century,
as has often been pointed out, there remained free resources to
the west, and private enterprise was busy in occupying these resources.
During the latter part of the century these resources
were occupied and investors turned back and bid against each
other for the resources already occupied.
So, in the early period, the increase in value of the occupied
resources was limited by the opportunity to go elsewhere, and


### ---Economics-1918-0-07.txt---
consequently the expected reward to speculation could not be
excessive. In the later period the increase in value of resources
comes to be limited only by the low rates of interest that investors
are willing to accept. The lower the rate of interest the higher
the price the investor is willing to pay for the property that
yields the interest. In the early period speculation served to
develop new resources. I'he nation could afford the high exceptional
rewards, for they added to the national wealth. In the
later period it served to force up the values of resources already
ownled, and in so far does not add to the national wealth, but to
the power of owners to extract a share from the national income.
Yet there remainied still another source of speculative profits.
It was the consolidations, under combinationis and trusts, of resources
already developed. 'the trust financing of later years
could afford to pay high prices for established plants and still
leave a speculative profit, by reason of their new economies and
their new power over prices.

But now this source of speculation is also closing. The former
low speculative values, with their expectation of high profits, are
swallowed up by high investment values satisfied with relatively
low rates of interest. Consequently, within the past decade or
two, it is towards Mexico, Canada, China, Central and South
America, Africa or Russia, where the speculative investment is
low, that American capital has begun to look for high profits and
future increases in the value of property. The frontier has moved
out of our own country and the speculative values of the future
are in the backward countries of the earth.
Here the government again is brought in. If these speculative
values are to be realized, it will be because they are protected by
the diplomacy and ultimately by the military power of the state.
If thus protected, then the stocks and bonds that represent the
low speculative values of these foreign holdings will be sold to
our own people at high investment values based on the lower rates
of interest which investors get at home. Thus the vested right
to military protection abroad will grow with what it feeds upon.
Surely, our government rightly hesitates before it ventures out
on this new frontier. It may be that our demand for the "open
door" will force us hereafter to join with Europe in the protection
of investments in backward countries. An enduring world peace
can scarcely be looked for without both the open door and military
protection for such investments. And this, of course, means opportunity


### ---Economics-1918-0-08.txt---
for American speculation to collect the savings, the
surplus capital of Americans, for investment abroad.
Yet our land differs from Europe. Europe is both overpopulated
and overinvested, compared with ourselves. Germany could
be crowded into one or two of our greater states. From the national
standpoint we need to keep American capital at home.
From the speculative standpoint it will not stay at home. We
may refuse to protect it abroad, with the idea of forcing it to
stay at home; but that will not suffice. It will then merely seek
the cover of that flag, or that alliance of flags, which comes out
victorious in the present war.

This, then, is the momentous issue into which our surplus capital
and our high investment values with their corresponding low
rates of profit have brought us. Wars in the past have been
fought over exports of products and annexations of territory.
These issues are, of course, present in this war, but, more important
for the future is the issue of investment in backward
countries, of lending our savings to foreigners-the export of
capital as well as the export of products.
Yet our country needs our surplus capital. We cannot prohibit
it from going abroad. We can only compete with the international
speculative financier who invites it to go abroad.
And this competition can be met only by the state in its several
divisions of local, state, and federal governments. Already the
federal government has begun to compete. The irrigation and
reclamation projects, the subsidies to industrial education-in
these cases the state is using its taxing power in such a way as
to divert the possible savings of the people away from the international
financier and into the development of our own resources.
The government has this advantage over the financier-it can
force savings to be diverted by means of the taxing power, and
it can induce them to come at lower rates of interest on its own
bonds or on the bonds that it guarantees. And with the high
values and consequently high initial investments now required it
is only this power to get capital by taxation or at low rates of
interest that can make possible, on a sufficiently large scale, these
internal improvements.

Not only a far-reaching system of rural credits, of land reclamation,
and of local highways, but also a huge extension of railways,
is a pressing need. It is estimated that the railways will
require, within the next ten years, over a billion dollars a year of


### ---Economics-1918-0-09.txt---
new capital. Private capi-tal will not invest at the low rates of
profit allowed under government regulation. Rather should we
say, private financiers will not undertake to collect the needed
capital from investors unless they are allowed the speculative
values of future unregulated profits.

I need not enlarge upon the reasons for which government hias
eliminated speculation in the railroad business. I-t was closely
connected with tlhe effort to do away with discriminations. Private
speculation does not go where service is needed the moLst, but
where the returns are highest. Consequently the private financier
seeks the business of the great corporation or the great city; and
this, instead of mainly developing the country, mainly adds to
the values already developed.

The next step was inevitable: that of limiting the profits as a
whole by regulating the entire schedule of rates. And it is this
that stands in the way of obtaining the one or more billions of
capital needed every year in order to catch up witlh the growth
of the country.

Our experience in this respect is not different from that of
otlher countries. It has been mainly the fact that privsate finanlciering
could not get the capital needed for the national necessities,
whether military or industrial, that has forced other
countries either to subsidize railways, or to guarantee tlheir stocks
and bonds, or to purchase them outright.
One or another of these methods we must look to as inevitable.
A general increase in freight rates offers no assurance either tlhat
the new capital will be obtained, or, if obtained, that it will be
used where it is needed for the development of the country.
The same is true also if the railroads are subsidized or if interest
on the new capital is guaranteed. The mnain objeet is to
take out of the hands of the speculative financier the power to
(decide where the new extensions shall be built, the new terminals
be provided, the new rolling stock be furnished. This is already
clone in some states in a negative way by giving to the state commissions
power to vcto issuess of stocks and bonds, or to prohibit
duplication of lines. Buit it is not done in the positive and necessary
way of ordering new lines to be built where the country most
needs them. Whether the state subsidizes or guarantees or owns
the railroads, it must be the government that decides positively
wlhere the money shall be spent.

Buit in all of these cases of proposed internal development, the


### ---Economics-1918-0-10.txt---
pork-barrel theory of government threatens governmental bankruptcy
by diverting the benefits of national taxation and low rates
of interest into further increased values of local real estate.
Already certain reclamation projects have pushed up the investment
values of land and burdened the actual settler with fixed
charges which drive him in turn to demand relief, not of the speculator
who has benefited, but of the government that has advanced
the capital. In these reclamation cases there was no theory of
value to guide the engineers who laid out the projects. Almost
the entire increase in value which the government added to the
property went to the speculative owners instead of to the actual
farmers. And now the government is asked to forego even its
low rate of interest, and perhaps the principal itself, so that the
farmer can make a living after having paid the speculator. The
alternative is bankruptcy for the farmer or more taxes for the
people.

Likewise with the subsidies to rural highways. In every state
we see the unseemly struggle between localities to get hold of this
state and federal taxing power which gives a special and permanent
benefit to local real estate. Had the special-benefit theory
been adopted, then the states and federal government would first
decide what highways are needed in the public interest and then
require the benefited property to refund the expense, to the extent
of the benefit.

More serious is the case of railways. The weightiest objection
to the government ownership of railways is the dreaded scramble
in Congress to get local extensions, terminals, and new lines
whether needed or not by the nation as a whole. The imagination
is stunned by the possibilities of logrolling and national bankruptcy
from this source, if the government owns the railways.
But with the doctrine of special benefits, namely, that the benefited
property of each locality and not the taxes of the nation should
be required to pay the expenses of permanent irnprovements, the
government might advance on a policy of public ownership without
fear that local private interests would logroll the general
public interest. Indeed, here again, as in the case of government
subsidies for rural credit, for reclamation and for highways, the
special-benefit theory is a specific against the fatty degeneracy of
the pork-barrel theory. The inducement to logroll for special
benefits is reduced if those who get the benefit are required to pay
for it.


### ---Economics-1918-0-11.txt---
The problem of getting new capital for economic reconstruction
after the war is the serious problem thrown upon us by the war.
Already the warring nations have begun to stagger under the
load of debt for military purposes. The burden of debt means
heavy taxes. New sources of revenue must be found. These
taxes may be levied in such a way as to burden industry and
handicap private enterprise, or in such a way as to place the
burden on various kinds of excess profits, unearned increments,
and special benefits. The latter tends to reduce the taxes on new
capital, going as far in some cases as to exempt it altogether
from taxation, and so to unburden industry and invigorate private
enterprise. This is the lesson taught by the American system
of special assessments on account of special benefits. Capital is
raised for public improvements, not by burdening the investor, but
by taxing an unearned increment.

But it is not only new sources for obtaining capital that the
war has forced us to seek; it is also a new way of telling where
it shall be invested when found. Here the war has also forced
the method upon our attention. It notifies us that the doctrinie
of laissez faire is dead. The nation that killed it now threatens
to build world empire on the others that did not know it was dead.
In whatever direction we look, even in our own country, we see
interested parties arranging its funeral. And it is dead just because
it cannot secure new capital to be invested where either
the nation or those directly interested want the investment to be
made. If it is the foreign export of products that we want, then
the nation must provide a merchant marine by means of taxes
or subsidies. If it is the open door for foreign investment and
export of capital to backward countries that we want, then the
nation must tax or bond itself for armies and navies to protect
those investments. And if it is the development of our own resources
that we want, by means of highways, railways, rural credit,
reclamation, or industrial education, then the nation again must
tax itself or bond itself or guarantee private bonds in order to
subsidize the needed improvement.

Laissez faire is dead, and the only question is, where shall the
state employ its taxing power and its borrowing power in order
both to get and to invest the new capital?
If the foregoing analysis of American theories of value, of
property, and of sovereignty, has significance, it lies in this: that
American democracy and its Supreme Court have already given


### ---Economics-1918-0-12.txt---
an answer, and the answer is a kind of specific against the very
evils of the pork-barrel that drove America into the lap of laissez
faire. The answer is that the new capital be raised by various
kinds of special benefit assessments on all kinds of property or
income that are specially benefited by the activities of local, state,
and federal governments; that taxes be reduced or discontinued
on those forms of industry that are not specially benefited and
that therefore must compete with the international financier for
new capital that can flow anywhere on the world market; and,
finally, that the state employ its borrowing power, backed by its
taxing power, to buy and operate those essential and basic industries,
whether higlhways, railways, mines, forests, or waterpowers,
upon which all industries depend for materials, for mechanical
power, and for markets.

These may rightly be said to be the lessons both of the war and
of American democracy.

I do not overlook the fact which originated and now supports
our laissez-faire theory, namely, the incompetency of government
to administer a public business. Just because our pork-barrel
theory encourages individuals and classes to logroll and get all
they can out of government without giving much in return, it
follows that they wish to see an inefficient government that cannot
protect itself against them. But when we realize that our liberty
and property depend upon a competent civil service and an expert
administration of government, then we make sacrifices and pay
attention in order to strengthen that administration. Thousands
of our successful business men, professional men, and labor leaders,
through their service on councils of defense and other public bodies,
are now learning both the vital importance of public business and
the reasons for its incompetency; and government officials are
learning that they cannot administer public business without the
assistance of these same representative private citizens.
Our inefficiency is a state of mind, a pork-barrel theory; a
laissez-faire philosophy. By reason of it we have built up great
private interests whose speculative profits render them hostile to
a strong and efficient government, except wlhere it helps them.
By a different state of mind we are already building up great
public interests that require and are beginning to get tlhe co6peration
of private interests.

But it is also objected that these are the teaclhings and devices,
not of American democracy, but of German auitocracy, whose


### ---Economics-1918-0-13.txt---
example we must avoid., Rather are they the processes by whichl
Germany is mastering the world. Germany is forcing us to become
a great military and naval power. What if she forces us to
becomie an efficient industrial power?

It depends on the purpose. Modern industry is much alike in
all countries and its conditions of efficiency are much the same.
But the purposes for which it is used may differ. If our purpose
is to make use of our people in order to gain more power for the
state over other nations, then, as contributing to that purpose
we shall raise capital by taxation and invest it in navies and armaments
and shall back up speculative investments abroad. If our
purpose is to open up our own resources for future billions of
surplus capital and for future millions of population, then we
shall raise capital, also largely by taxation, but shall invest it
in those basic industries which no longer can be left to speculation.
Only government can choose which of these purposes shall be
first. The will of the state decides. And already have American
democracy and the Supreme Court begun to point out both the
theory and the practice by which the American government may
give a preference to domestic investment over foreign investment.
 ## Economics-1919-0


### ---Economics-1919-0-01.txt---
men, one of the most notable is the keener desire which we all now
feel to be of genuine public service. During the war hundreds of
our members have done "war work." In Washington alone one
hundred and twenty of them have been in public service.
During the impending world-reconstruction, economists will
probably have more opportunity to satisfy this impulse than
most students in other departments of human thought; for the
great problems of reconstruction are largely economic.
It therefore becomes each of us, as we pause on the threshold
of a possible "new world," to consider what are the new opportunities
and what the new duties which lie before us. That new
world of which we are all speaking is still unbuilt. Is it to build
itself, unplanned, or is it to have architects? And are we to be
numbered among the architects? These are undoubtedly some of
the thoughts and hopes and fears which stir us today.
How different they are from those of our own economic teachers
a generation ago! Then many economists thought it beneath their
dignity to engage at all in practical affairs except to cry: "Laissez
faire." They believed that a scientist should be simply an observer,
compiler, and interpreter of facts, not a guide, counsellor,
and friend of humanity.

It is noteworthy that their attitude of academic aloofness not
only failed to give to economic study, in the eyes of the world, that
status of a "true science" which they claimed for it but, on the
contrary, brought it into disrepute and provoked a vigorous reaction.
The world demanded that economics should become something
more than "the dismal science."

Accordingly, a new economics sprang up, intent on "doing
something." This new school was centered in Germany as the
older "Manchester School" was centered in England.
When the American Economic Association was founded thirtythree
years ago the antagonism between these two schools was at
its height. In fact, we owe the formation of this Association
clhiefly to that antagonism. A number of young American economists,


### ---Economics-1919-0-02.txt---
fresh from the inspiration of study in Germany, were eager
to conivert American economists to a new and more optimistic
point of view.

The chief American economists of that time, however, regarded
the young enthusiasts just back from Germany as upstarts, meddlers,
and propagandists, unworthy of any standing in the hierarchy
of true economic science. Some of them, like my own revered
master, Professor Sumner, even declined to join the American
Economic Association for fear of lending aid and comfort to
a propaganda with which they were wholly out of sympatlhy.
It was doubtless in viewv of this strong feeling on both sides that
the Economic Association when formed was strictly limited as to
its functions. As our constitution says, its object is:
"The encouragement of perfect freedom of economic discussion.
The Association as such will take no partisan attitude, nor will it
commit its members to any position on practical economic questions.
"

A year and a half ago, after America entered the war, some of
our modern enthusiasts proposed that the Association should endeaver
to find, and do, its "bit" for the country. The objection
was promptly interposed that, as an organization, we had no
"bit" to do; for we were apparently prohibited by our constitution
from taking any "partisan attitude" or committing our members
to "any position on practical economic questions." But a
few moniths afterward, that is, a year ago, after much debate a
proposal to appoint a Committee on the Purchasing Power of
MIoney in Relation to the War was adopted, and later the Executive
Committee appointed a number of other committees on war
problems, including committees on War Finance, Foreign Trade,
Price Fixing, Marketing, and Labor. Some of these committees
have done work of great service to the country.
I mention tlhese incidents in our history, as a text from which
to draw certain lessons. What I most wish to point out concerns
not so much the attitude of the Association as such but the attitude
of its members as individuals.

The conflict between those economists who were conservative
and those who were radical in regard to applying academic study
may be resolved into two separate questions or issues. The first
is: Should economists remain in academic seclusion, concerned
principally with pure theory and leaving the vulgar world to take
care of itself, or should they seek practical applications for their


### ---Economics-1919-0-03.txt---
principles? The second is: Granted that we should serve, exactly
whom should we serve?

To the first of these questions the radicals have, in my opinion,
given the better answer. Even the economic recluse selects, if he
can, some theme related to human affairs and fondly hopes that
his work may be taken up and utilized by practical men. It must
be admitted, however, that most economists even yet depend too
much on books and official reports and too little on personally
feeling the pulse of real events.

But it is the second question which most needs our attention
today: Whom are we to serve? To this, I believe, the conservatives
have given the better answer.

Economics may be applied for the benefit of the whole world
or for the benefit of one country alone. Again, within a country,
economics may be applied for the general good or for a
special commercial interest, special class, or special locality.
I have referred to the curiously interesting fact that this Association
largely owes its birth to German economics. Undoubtedly
German economics brought us a new and altruistic impulse.
In particular we received from Germany the idea, close to the
heart of every German economist, of making economics of service
to "the state."

But in the last two years the war's revelations have made us
realize, to our horror, that "tthe state" served by the German
economists, or, at any rate, the German economists of today, was
simply the Hohenzollern dynasty. We now know that German
professors in general, from theologian to chemist, have prostituted
their professional services to serve Germany's criminal purposes.
Frederick Scott Oliver in his "Ordeal by Battle" called the
professors the "Priestcraft" throuigh whom the German Governnent
indoctrinatedl the German people. Professor Emnery called
the war a war of the economic interpretation of history. Others
have called it a professors' war and especially an economic professor'
s' war. Some among the very group of German teachers
who stirred the enthusiasm out of which this Association grew, and
more among their successors, in their service of "the state," lhelped
to lay the foundation for the war. That foundation, or the part
of it which they helped to lay, was a predatory economics, the
economics of a beast of prey, the economics of loot by war. In
this species of economics, property rights had existence onNr
within the state, not between states.


### ---Economics-1919-0-04.txt---
Even before the war Germany's policy of foreign trade was
thoroughly selfish. Transportation and manufacturing interests,
backed by the German banks and the German army and navy had
gone into the foreign markets to expel the commerce of other
countries by fair means or foul, all for the national aggrandizement
of Germany.

In view of these facts it clearly behooves us just now to undergo
a searching self-examination lest this same fatal taint may
lurk in our own American economics which we have taken, in part,
from Germany. If we contrast German and English economics,
we cannot but be struck by the narrowness and selfishness of the
former as contrasted with the breadth and liberality of the latter.
The contrast is exemplified by the difference between the spirit of
"Free Trade" and "Protection." Though the English policy was
dictated in large part by the conviction that it represented England'
s own interests in the long run, the great fact remains that
these interests were not sought at the expense of other peoples
but on the principle that both parties gained by a trade, and in
the thought that nothing more than free, fair, open competition
ought to be sought. This doctrine of "live and let live" has in it
few seeds of war.

If, now, at the final peace negotiations, the German style of
economics is to dominate, the settlement will degenerate into a
race for position "and the Devil take the hindmost." If the Allies
should repudiate their own ideas, namely, the ideas of international
reciprocity in trade relations and of the open door, and
each should merely seek to secure all it could of territory, colonies,
trade concessions, special investment rights, exclusive ports,
coaling stations, canals, railway routes, and discriminatory tariffs,
the Peace table will turn into a gamblers' table, on which will be
dealt out the cards for the next great game of war, and, as often
happens after a war, the ideas and ideals of the conquered will
have made conquest over those of the conquerors.
America has a special opportunity, a special mission-to uphold
humanitarian and democratic economics. The very fact that
Germany once inspired us toward an economics in the service of
the state should spur us now to avoid the nationalistic perversions
of that idea which befell our German colleagues. Any American
economist who hereafter lends his talents to serve and inflame a
hoggish chauvinism, is betraying the high ideals and purposes of
America in this war. For instance, even if a more liberal tariff


### ---Economics-1919-0-05.txt---
policy than that existing before the war were not mutually advantageous,
even if such a trade involved an econiomic sacrifice to
us as a nation, it would none the less truly be required of us today
in order to continue and establish on a permanent foundation that
chivalry which has characterized America's part in the war. The
call of the hour is to be just and generous. The concept of international
obligation has been born. Henceforth any international
arrangements must find their justification in international fairness,
not in unfair national advantage. Whatever "place in the
sun" we seek for ourselves, we must accord to every other nation,
small and great, weak and strong, new and old. The golden rule
must be the rule between nations as well as within a nation.
The proposed League of Nations is part and parcel of this
great idea of international justice now having its new birth and
baptism. Such a league is not only a political necessity as a preventive
of war; it is also an economic necessity as a preventive of
the economic burdens of militarism.

Like our own league of forty-eight states, it would obviate the
necessity of great armaments. Without such a league we must
resume competitive armaments-must, for instance, as our naval
men tell us, compete with England in naval strength; and further
competition in armies and navies would mean economic ruin to
Europe and great impoverishment to the United States. There
are two important special reasons why this would be true. One
is that the world, especially Europe, is so nearly exhausted economically
that even the old military burdens would now be far
harder to bear than before the war. The other is that the renewed
competition would be far more costly than the old, since
we would start off with all the huge equipment which the war
itself has brought.

Secondly, we must be on our guard against the bias of special
interests. This bias enters largely into much thinking on the subject
of the League to Enforce Peace, for there are interests which
would thwart this new and great idea, fearing that the new regime
may upset the old to which they and their private purses had become
well adjusted.

The great question, then, is: Are we, in our internal economics,
to serve the nation as a whole or are we to serve a special group
within the nation?

There can be no objection to an individual economist associating
himself with a special business and putting his talents at its


### ---Economics-1919-0-06.txt---
disposal, provided, of course, he does so openly, and provided the
business is legitimate, that is, provided his activities are not inconsistent
with the general welfare.

Academnic economists, from their very openmindedness, are apt
to be carried off, unawares, by the bias of the community in which
they live.

Economists whose social world is Wall Street are very apt to
take the Wall Street point of view, while economtists at state universities
situated in farming districts are apt to be partisans of
the agricultural interests.

The economists of a century ago were unconsciously writing
from the standpoint of the employer rather than from that of
the employee, as was shiown by their references to labor as an expense
of production. Today, on the contrary, as labor is increasing
in power, we find many economists are, consciously or unconsciously,
taking the point of view of the laborer. This comes
closer to being the democratic, humanitarian, or public point of
view, but is often in real antagonism to it. Trade unionism, socialism,
and even Bolshevism, syndicalism, or I. W. W.ism have
occasional champions or apologists among economists. Socialism
especially h-as enlisted under its banner a motley group of theorists
eager for some realization of their humanitarian intentions.
In a sense, of course, "we are all socialists nowadays." But what
should give us pause before enrollilng under that banner is that, in
reality, it is the red flag of class war. Whatever we may say
of theoretical socialism of various types, and however muclh we
may and ought, in my opinlion, to favor in some form an increase
of socialized industry, the great fact remains that the socialist
group derives its real strengtlh from class antagonism. This is
even truer of the I. W. W. A few weeks ago a workman in the
I. W. W. wrote me: "Nothing could give me a greater pleasure
than to have an opportunity to exterminate from the globe every
capitalist. That time is coming, thank God !" The Dutch minister
at Petrograd recently said: "Translated into practice, the
Bolsheviki principles are 'high wages for no work, the taking of
others' property without punishment, and no taxation.'"
There can be little doubt that we are facing a great peril today,
the peril of perverting the democracy for which we have just been
fighting with such devotion.

It is our opportunity and our duty to dedicate ourselves to the
task of working out economic ineasuires in the interests of humanity


### ---Economics-1919-0-07.txt---
and democracy as against the selfish interests of either the
capitalist or the laborer as such.

If we jealously guard our independence and impartiality we
snall gain for our profession the enviable position of being the
logical arbiters of the class struggle now beginning-arbiters
which both sides can trust. We may, and should, take sides, but
only as a just judge takes sides when he renders his decision and
only after a fair weighing of the evidence.
WATe may be sure that there will be a bitter struggle over the
distribution of wealth until a more or less definite readjustment
has been found. Professor King of the University of Wisconsin
has shown that something like two-thirds of our people have no
capital except the clothes on their backs and a little furniture and
personal belongings, while the major part of our capital is owned
by less than two per cent of the population. The income-distribution
is not quite so unequal. About lhalf of our national income
is received by one-fourth of our population. There is evidence to
show that this striking inequality of distribution of capital and
income is increasing and that it is greater in cities than in the
country. Still more distressing is the fact that, since the twentietli
century began, wages reckoned in commodities, not money,
have been actually decreasing while profits have been increasing.
The purchasing power of wages over food in 1917 was only a little
over two-thirds of what it was ten years before. The extraordinarily
high wages of 1918 among certain forms of skilled labor
are, of course, not representative.

The real scientific study of the distribution of wealth has, we
must confess, scarcely begun as yet. The conventional academic
study of the so-called theory of distribution into rent, interest,
wages, and profits is only remotely related to the subject. This
subject, the causes and cures for the actual distribution of capital
and income among real persons, is one of the many now in need
of our best efforts as scientific students of society. I shall here
merely throw into the discussion a few tentative thoughts which
seem to me to be now either completely overlooked or only dimly
appreciated.

There are, I believe, two master keys to the distribution of
wealth: the Inheritance system and the Profit system.
The practices which happen to be followed by men of great
wealth in making wills is certainly the chief determinant of the
distribution of their wealtlh after their deatlh. Mr. Albert G.


### ---Economics-1919-0-08.txt---
Coyle, one of my former students, has estimated that four-fifths
of the one hundred and fifty or more fortunes in the United States
having incomes of over $1,000,000 a year have been accumulating
for two generations or more. It is interesting to observe that, although
the formulae expressing distribution by Pareto's logarithmic
law are similar for the United States and England, the number
of wealthy men at the top is two and a quarter times as great,
in proportion to population, in England as in the United States,
presumably because the number of generations through which
fortunes have been inherited are much greatL- there than here.
Yet the man who wills property does so without regard to its
effect on the social distribution of wealth. In fact even from the
private point of view careful thought is seldom bestowed on the
solemn responsibility of bequeathing property. The ordinary
millionaire capitalist about to leave this world forever cares less
about what becomes of the fortune he leaves behind than we have
been accustomed to assume. Contrary to a common opinion, he
did not lay it up, at least not beyond a certain point, because of
any wish to leave it to others. His accumulating motives were
rather those of power, of self-expression, of hunting big game.
I believe that it is very bad public policy for the living to allow
the dead so large and unregulated an influence over us. Even in
the eye of the law there is no natural right, as is ordinarily falsely
assumed, to will property. "The right of inheritance," says Chief
Justice Coleridge of England, "a purely artificial right, has been
at different times and in different countries very variously dealt
with. The institution of private property rests only upon the
general advantage." And again, Justice McKenna of the United
States Supreme Court says: "The right to take property by
devise or descent is the creature of the law and not a natural
right-a privilege, and therefore the authority which confers it
may impose conditions on it."

The disposal of property by will is thus simply a custom, one
handed down to us from Ancient Rome. It is no more inviolate
than the custom of the disposal of the body of the dead by burial.
Just as, in the interests of the living, we are substituting cremation
for burial, so-likewise in the interests of the living-we may
substitute a new for a traditional method of disposing of the
dead man's goods.

Numerous limitations of the right to will property do, in fact,
already exist in each of our states-some under common law, others


### ---Economics-1919-0-09.txt---
under statute law. There are, in particular, restrictions
against tying up property (except in charitable bequests) in perpetuity.
These restrictions have, undoubtedly, restrained the accumulation
of swollen fortunes. There is no reason why we cannot
continue to, add to such limitations so far as seems wise.
For instance, Rignano, the Italian economist, suggests making
the state co-heir of all bequests so that it will receive one-third of
the estate on the first descent, two-thirds of the remainder on the
second, and the residue on the third descent.
So much for the first great factor responsible for an undemocratic
distribution of wealth-the inheritance system. It has to
do with the transmission of fortunes from one generation to another.
The other great factor, the profit system, has to do with
the mushroom growth of a fortune in a single generation.
When fortunes are made with prodigious speed, it is usually
wholly or chiefly through profits. Accumulation by compound interest,
though amazing in its possibilities after a fortune is large,
cannot in a single lifetime make a large fortune out of a small
one. Every "self-made" millionaire, so far as I know, became
such, if honestly, primarily through profits. Profits are the
chance part of distribution, the part which is the uncertain, and
therefore extremely variable, margin left after the more fixed and
known parts of the distribution-rent, interest, wages, and salaries-
have been deducted.

Profits are, next to wages, the most importaiit element of our
national income, comprising over a quarter therof and being more
important than rent and interest combined.
My query here is: May we not find ways, by legislation and
otherwise, of modifying more or less profoundly the present profit
system? I have in mind not only profit-sharing plans, plans for
co6perative producing, buying or distributing, and schemes for
allotting common stock to employees by which the worker may
feel a stake in the business in which he is engaged; but also, and
more particularly, possible participating by the public itself
through the government.

I am aware, of course, of the obvious and real objections to
such plans and I am not offering a solution of this problem, but
su,ggesting what seems to me a promising line in which we economists
may seek!a solution. Perhaps there are many different solutions,
varying according to circumstances. It may well be that
a place will always be left for pure private ownership and management,


### ---Economics-1919-0-10.txt---
as well as a place for pure government ownership, even
though a mixed system or systems, such as I have in mind as possible,
be placed between.

We already have some examples of mixed types, such as government
regulation; leases to private capitalists with reversionary
rights to the city, state, or nation; subsidies; price fixing; guaranteeing
prices; underwriting against loss; taxes on profits or on
excess profits.

The important point is that, under the present private-profit
system, the chance of profits and risk of losses as well as the management
are entirely in the hands of one only of the three classes
interested in the success of the enterprise. The other two classes,
namely, the workers and the public, do not ordinarily participate
much, if at all. The enterpriser or chance-taker has, under this
system, come to think and to speak of his industry as "my business"
and gets quoted even as saying "the public be damned."
For instance, we entrust the great public function of conducting
our public press to irresponsible private capitalists who in turn
are largely controlled by their advertisers, even more irresponsible.
Fundamentally the question is one of adequately representing
the parties whose interests are involved. Only incidentally is it a
question of efficiency. Yet I believe the two are not so far apart
as is often supposed. An efficient autocracy in industry is as
suicidal in the end as an efficient autocracy in politics has shown
itself to be. Either is unstable because unrepresentative. The
most enduring of great banks is the Bank of England because it
is based not on a narrow money-making efficiency, but on the idea
of efficiency for public service. Even its governor represents not
the banker in the English sense but the "merchant," a merchant
banker who stands partly for the public whom the banker serves.
Yet the Bank of England is technically a private bank. Its great
merit is that the bank's customers, including the government, participate
in shaping its policy.

While government enterprise has glaring defects, the present
system of private profit is zalso defective. It is even very costly
to the public in that the enterpriser requires the chance of large
profits to compensate for the large risks he asssumes. Two unfortunate
consequences follow. One is that in this great game of
chance the lottery winnings make multimillionaires out of millionaires,
which is inconsistent with democratic ideals and democratic
progress. The other is that it creates hostility on the part


### ---Economics-1919-0-11.txt---
of the other two classes. The workman therefore is over-ready to
strike, shirk, or commit sabotage. The local public often cordially
hate a great railway like the Pennsylvania system or the Southern
Pacific at whose mercy they are, or a great corporation, trust or
bank, which they call an "octopus." From such hostility comes a
contest for political power and, too often, corruption. This corruption
should not all be charged up to politics as such; for much
of it is due to private industry struggling for private profits in
disregard of public usefulness.

The government, representing the public, is, with all its faults,
in a better position than the private capitalist to underwrite great
industrial undertakings, both because its resources are greater and
because the chances iof gains and losses in many different directions
would tend, more fully, to offset each other. Government
underwriting of industry is thus in the last analysis simply a
species of social insuriance.

It is interesting to observe that such social insurance as we are
now familiar with-workmen's compensation, health insurance,
etc.-usually provides that the cost and management shall be
shared by the three parties interested, employer, employee, and
state.

Nor is such an extension of the principle of social insurance as
I am now tentatively suggesting so strange as it may at first appear.
It is just what we have seen happen under the stress of
war. Early in the war the profit system by which the government
let out to contractors the making of munitions and other
supplies was found to be not only very expensive but to work very
badly. We therefore hastily improvised many kinds of government
regulation to meet the situation. The important point for
us to note here is that the government thus assumed some of the
commercial risks and insured others against them. To secure an
adequate wheat supply it guaranteed to the farmer the price of
wheat, while, at the same time, it protected the public against
"Cprofiteering" in prices of bread. In taking over the railways it
guaranteed certain minimum profits. It assumed the most of the
risks in shipbuilding. It supplied a revolving fund to loan to essential
industries which would otherwise run the risk of not securing
needed capital. It put government officials in charge of
munition works which, under private management, were in danger
of failing to give the needed service to the country. It did all
these things clumsily; but it had to do something because private


### ---Economics-1919-0-12.txt---
enterprise failed or could not be depended on to render the service
to the country which the country needed and demanded.
Even before the war there were many examples of some sort of
government participation. Railways were often built in part by
subsidy of nation, state, or locality, in order that the public interest
might be served. Irrigating, forestry, and water power development
have had government ownership or participation in
various forms. Abroad, both town and nation are sometimes coowners
with individuals in the forests.

I may add that, in my opinion, the rather common idea that
profits should be limited to a "fair rate of interest" is not a solution
of the difficulty. It is as absurd and unfair as the socialists'
dictum that profits are essentially stolen from workmen's wages.
Nothing would serve so effectually to kill enterprise as to forbid
the enterpriser from securing more profits than he could get by
lending his money, unless at the same time we protect him against
losses. Some one must assume the risks of enterprise, and he
who assumes the risks of loss is entitled to the chance of profits.
As long as we keep the system by which the private capitalist is,
single handed, to struggle to win wealth from natural resources,
we must give him the chance of winning big prizes together with
the chance of great losses.

Needless to say, therefore, I am not attacking the man who
takes profits under the present system. He ought not, or not
always, to be stigmatized as a profiteer. Nor am I attacking the
man who wills his property in the ordinary way. Both are playing
the game according to the present rules. My criticism is not
of the players, but of the rules. New rules may be found-rules
better for both the players and the onlookers.
Our society will always remain an unstable and explosive compound
as long as political power is vested in the masses and economic
power in the classes. In the end one of these powers will
rule. Either the plutocracy will buy up the democracy or the
democracy will vote away the plutocracy. In the meantime the
corrupt politician will thrive as a concealed broker between the
two.

On the face of it, we should expect that all the evils mentioned
would be relieved if we had more democracy in industry, that is,
if the workman and the public felt that the great industries were
partly theirs, both as to ownership and as to management.
As to the representation of workmen in the management, some


### ---Economics-1919-0-13.txt---
industries have introduced a "Senate" to represent the office staff
and a "House of Representatives" to represent the shop workers.
These, with the executive, exercising a veto power, manage the industry
after the pattern of our political republic. This and
other plans for a more representative control are worth careful
study. A large part of our present dissatisfaction with industry
comes from its autocratic control, which is growing more rapidly
centralized even than is the actual ownership. The device of the
corporation, especially the holding corporation, has put a large
fraction of the capital of the country into the hands of a small
group, of magnates mostly in New York City.
So much for the distribution and control of wealth. There are
other subjects equally worthy of our attention. Even if the,distribution
of wealth could be ideal, the industrial world would find
abundant reason for discontent. Just as the political freedom
sought by the French Revolution proved insufficient and disappointing,
so will what is now called economic freedom be found
insufficient and disappointing.

When we speak, however figuratively, of wage-slavery, we ought
to think not only of low wages, but also of the repulsiveness of
the work itself. The great reason why an industry fascinates the
employer but bores the employee is, in my opinion, that human
psychologic laws are neglected.

I hope that psychologists may some day, in cooperation with
economists, help to a truer understanding of the nature of human
freedom. What we liberty lovers are really groping for is, apparently,
not to do as we think we please but to do what will
actually please us after it is done; that is, to satisfy fairly well
all of the great fundamental human instincts, of which there are
many besides the instinct of self-preservation or of making a living.
The workman not only longs for more pay, but he hungers
and thirsts for other things which he cannot formulate, because
so largely unconscious.

The problem of making manual workers contented, or as contented
as the rest of us, or as contented as they can be, is not,
therefore, a problem simply of the distribution of wealth. It is
one of introducing, or re-introducing, certain fundamental motives
into industry. Just as the large capitalist does not usually
accumulate for his children but for the love of accumulating, and
just as inventors (as Professor Taussig has shown) do not usually
invent merely, or even chiefly, for money but for the love of


### ---Economics-1919-0-14.txt---
inventing, so the workman can be motivated also by quite different
motives from the ordinary pay-envelope motive. I refer to the
creative and other impulses emphasized at this session by Mr.
Robert B. Wolf and others, and by Miss Marot and Ordway Tead
in their books, as well as a year ago in our Philadelphia meeting
by the late Professor Carleton Parker (whose important pioneer
work will, I hope, never be forgotten).

The war affords us a great object lesson here. Men previouslv
apathetic in the shop, under the money motive, have exhibited a
wonderful eagerness to fight for their country with no wages to
speak of and with no money bonus whatever. Again, when the
armistice was signed, this wonderful "morale" shrank appreciably
overnight. Still again, we find that many of the soldiers who return
to work after the excitements of military life are actually
spoiled as workmen. We must find ways of putting real "pep"
into the worker-for his sake as well as others'. Perhaps a wiser
employment management can and will spread over the country as
a result of the war and, in particular, of the studies of the War
Industries Board with its 13 courses and 275 graduates fitted
thereby to become employment managers. Perhaps the labor men
can take the initiative. Either or both might happen through
several agencies, including the Industrial Department of the Y.
M. C. A.

We economists ought to be able to play an important
part, in co6peration with psychologists, employers, and employees,
by studying this new movement, distilling out the essential truths
it represents, and contributing constructive suggestions of our
own. The psychologist and the religious workers helped vastly in
creating our soldiers' morale. Cannot the morale needed in industry
be secured with equal success? If we can and do secure it,
it will be by making industry really democratic. And if we do
secure it, the productivity of industry will be greatly increased
because those who have its success at heart and put their own interest
and initiative into that success will include the millions of
workers and not merely the thousands of employers.
Here again the war teaches us a great lesson. The miraculous
accomplishments of the United States were due not to a centralized
organizing genius, such as created German military power in forty
years, but to a decentralized cooperation whereby each citizen, of
his own initiative, tried to do his "bit." Not only was the war a
triumph of democracy over autocracy but it demonstrated the efficiency


### ---Economics-1919-0-15.txt---
of the democratic method, that is, the method which relies
on enlisting the active initiative, the enthusiastic interest and will
to help, of the people. The Prussian method has failed and the
Prussian method in American industry has failed and always will.
These problems of industrial discontent are only some of the
great problems now before us.

There is not time even to sketch the others. One of them concerns
the rehabilitation of monetary standards, including not
simply resumption of specie payments and restoration of pars of
exchange but maintenance of purchasing power. I have often
spoken and written on this theme. Here, as always, we must beware
of the bias-and I am sorry to say, I know of one economist
who has not escaped it-of special interests, whether of the gold
miner or silver miner or of the creditor or debtor-interests.
The great field of social insurance for workingmen and especially
the next step-Health Insurance-should also engage our
attention. Here, likewise, we must steer clear of the bias of the
employer, the trade union, the insurance company, or the medical
profession.

The problem of demobilization, especially the problem of preventing
unemployment during the period of readjustment and the
problem of the future occupation in industry or settlement on
land of our soldiers, especially those invalided, are also before us.
These and other problems of reconstruction are the basis of our
meeting this year, as our program shows. The thoughts we receive
at this annual meeting should help all of us who are in earnest
to reach conclusions on these topics, if not here and now, soon
afterward, and so be of service in shaping American policy in the
immediate future.

In order that our influence may be fully exerted, I believe two
new agencies are needed-one designed to diffuse such economic
knowledge as we possess among the people who do not possess it,
and the other designed to increase that knowledge.
At present we college men are, in a sense, teaching the wrong
people. We reach a college audience which is not only small but
is, I think most teachers will agree, less in need of our elementary
teachings than the general public.

An urgent need, in my opinion, is some organized machinery for
diffusing economic principles among the masses of our population.
The common people, whose ideas will, more and more, rule
the world, are in crying need of competent instruction in economics,
simplified and reduced to its lowest terms.


### ---Economics-1919-0-16.txt---
In a democracy the people express their opinion on economic
problems, but without much opportunity, in the first instance, to
make that opinion intelligent. Workmen now act on the ideas,
often fallacious even from the standpoint of labor alone, of labor
leaders woefully ignorant of the fundamental principles of economics.
It is for lack of economic enlightenment that they approve
of limitation of output, extravagant expenditure on public
works, slackness and inefficiency !of workmen, exclusion or destruction
of "labor saving" machinery, sabotage, limitation of apprentices,
cessation of trade schools, etc. In so doing they are
laboring under a "make work" delusion. Likewise, they are apt
to cry out for more money in times of inflation, under a money
delusion. It is encouraging to note, however, that recently some
labor elements, especially the English, as indicated by their recent
manifesto on Reconstruction, have become emancipated from most
of these doctrines.

The second suggestion is that there should be created an endowment
for economic research, in the management of which labor,
capital, and economists would, all three, share and which would be
a sort of laboratory for the study of the great economic problems
before us. Today the physical sciences have their great laboratories,
as a matter of course. But the economist is expected to
secure his own facts and statistics and make his own calculations
at his own expense. Expensive research, far beyond the reach
of the professor's purse, is necessary if the economist is to be of
any important public service in studying wealth distribution, the
profit system, the problem of labor unrest, and the other many
pressing practical problems. Harvard University, through its
Committee on Economic Research, and other Research Bureaus,
are now making a beginning in this direction.
Such an endowment as has recently been suggested might be
under the auspices of this Association or otherwise guarded
against narrow or partisan control.

Certainly if we are to serve the great world democracy which
we hope to see arise from the ashes of this great world conflagration,
we must see the problem whole.

Our present opportunity is one which, if now missed, may never
come again. The war has kindly lifted us, for a time, out of the
old ruts. Consequently the world is far more open-minded, more
expectant, and more desirous of getting at the real truth of things
today than ever before. But as the years roll by ruts will be worn


### ---Economics-1919-0-17.txt---
again and, once worn wrongly, may be harder than ever to efface
or correct.

It is given to us as to no previous generation of economists to
share in fixing the foundations for a new economic organization
and one which shall harmonize with the principles of democracy.
If we are to succeed it will be because we perform our task with
wisdom, unselfishness, and impartiality. As economists in public
service in a democratic world we are pledged not to serve simply
our local community, our own country, or our own time, but to
serve rather all humanity throughout the world and throughout
future generations.