
# E4
 ## Economics-1920-0


### ---Economics-1920-0-01.txt---
There can be no question that for the student of economics the
war has been a distinct boon. The strain to which our economic
system was suddenly subjected has thrown new light on its structure
and working, has revealed weaknesses in current economic
reasoning, and suggested new evaluations of the forces at work in
economic life. Such an experience is bound to add to the body of
economic knowledge and suggest new methods of approach to
economic problems. That suclh has been the case there is abundant
evidence in the papers and discussions at our annual meetings.
Some economists, indeed, seem to have lost faith in the general
validity of the principles of economic science as it has been gradually
built up since the time of Adam Smitlh, to believe that it must
be in large measure discarded and an effort made to build on new
foundations. There are various reasons for this feeling: the failure
of economists to predict accurately the effect of the war upon
the course of economic events; the progress made in the study of
psychology and its bearing upon the understanding of the motives
of human action; the feeling that economic reasoning has been
based upon the assumption of the permanence of existing institutions,
failing to recognize both that these institutions are subject
to change and that they are themselves the controlling factors
in economic life and should therefore furnish the main body of material
for economic science. None of these criticisms is new but
the proceedings of our recent meetings show that they are being
urged with special force at the present time.

While no economist would for a moment suggest that his science
has reached, or ever will reach, its final form, while the experience
through which we are passing and the criticisms to which reference
has been made may contain contributions of great value to its
progress, it may be questioned whether they are as destructive in
their effect as some would appear to believe. Prediction is the
severest test to which our knowledge can be put. It is possible


### ---Economics-1920-0-02.txt---
only when the forces at work are few and their action thoroughly
understood, i.e., within a narrow range of the phenomena of the
external world. It is and always must be extremely uncertain in
the field of human action where the forces at work are indefinitely
numerous and but partially understood.

It is true that many economists as well as others underestimated
the reserve labor power which modern nations can call into action
and the extent to which they can readjust their economic machinery
when the spirit of self-sacrifice and patriotic enthusiasm has
been strongly awakened among their peoples, and that they therefore
predicted that financial and economic exhaustion would end
the war sooner than it did. But Europe was practically at the
end of its resources, financial and economic, when the war closed.
Fortunately the resources of our own country, when under these
conditions they were thrown into the scale, turned the balance
decisively and we were not called upon to undergo the test of endurance.


It is true that economists for the same reasons and because they
failed to make proper allowance for the temporary effects of inflation,
the influence of the newly established federal reserve system,
and the possibilities of organized appeals to patriotism, predicted
a rise in the rate of interest earlier than it actually occurred
in this country, but they were right in their analysis of the fundamental
influences at work. The rise has begun in the case of longtime
investments, although in the case of short-time loans it is still
retarded by the increase in our facilities for discount due to the
establishment of the federal reserve system, the great importation
of gold during the early years of the war, and the creation of some
25 billions of new securities in the form of public debt which have
been made available as collateral for loans at low rates of interest.
But even under these conditions the capacity of banks to loan is
not inexhaustible and there are indications that this fact is beginning
to be realized.

In 1914 I suppose practically all economists would have agreed
that a war such as we have been through accompanied by a great
expansion of money and credits and the destruction of wealth
would cause a rise in prices to be followed by a fall after the close
of the war. As a matter of fact, prices have continued to rise and
today, in the ligllt of experience with new forces, brought into
operation by the war itself, many seem to doubt whether the fall
will come. I venture to predict that here too, unless there is to


### ---Economics-1920-0-03.txt---
be a permanent decrease of production or the abandonment of all
at-tempt by the wNorld at large to escape froimi a (lepreciated paper
basis, the error of the economists of 1914 will prove to be in the
time required for fundamnental economic forces to work out their
result and not in the ultimate result itself. The influences which
retard the fall in prices are the same influences which retard the
rise of interest rates. When these influences are exhausted and the
fall in prices occurs, it may also be found that what we might
term the real interest rates, the burden imposed upon tlhe borrower,
the per cent on value actually received which he has contracted
to repay, have risen more rapidly than nominal rates.
In the face of what I have said concerning the danger of prophecy,
and of what seems to be the tendency of events at the moment,
I will venture one more prediction strictly in accord with
the current theory of econolmiics. As a result of the war the
United States has changed from a debtor to a creditor nation
and bids fair to again take its place in the ocean carrying trade.
For ne-arly fifty years we have had a so-called favorable balance of
trade which has been tremendously increased by the war.
The permanent as distinguished from the temporary influences
set in operation by the war are working, however, towards an increase
of imports relatively to exports. We cannot expect permanently
to maintain the great excess of exports over imports
which has characterized our commerce since 1873. This readjustment
of our trade balance may be teinporarily modified and
postponed by continue(l grants of foreign credits, by investments
in foreign securities, and large expenditures by American travellers
abroad. It is bound to come in the end. I make no predictions
as to the time involved.

But if the war has made clear that economic science has not
yet reached a stage of conmpleteness which affords a secure basis
for prophecy, so far at least as the timne required for its fulfilment
is concerned, it has without question confirmed the truth of certain
fundamental facts and principles which lie at the basis of the
current teaching of economics. Nothing could have brought out
mnore clearly than did the war the truth, taught in every class in
elementary economrlics, that the fundamental economic facts and
processes are the same uinder our higlhly organized industrial system
as in the most primitive coinmunity, that the measure of man's
economic power is hiis ability to produce the goodls whieli le needs,


### ---Economics-1920-0-04.txt---
and that the elabora-le system of exchange and finance which has
been built up is but a piece of mechanism for the furtherance of
this end.

On the basis of our war experience it is easy to make clear that
our power of productioni is limited; that if we would increase the
production of certain goods, we must economize our consumption
of others; that economy in consumption, saving, is the essential
condition of the creation of capital; that war finance is the placing
of the labor and capital of the country at the disposal of the government;
that financial operations are not an independent means,
but merely the mechanism for accomplishing this purpose; and
that the slogan, "business as usual," in the face of a great national
emergency which diminishes our labor force and requires the diversion
of labor into new lines of industry is an evident fallacy.
On the whole, economists need not be discouraged by results of
the test to which generally accepted principles of economics have
been subjected by the war.

It is certain that we have much to learn concerning the influences
which govern human action, but there seems no reason to believe
that we have erred in assuming that laborers prefer the job
that yields the highest pay; that sellers desire to sell in the dearest
and buyers to buy in the cheapest market; that the organizers
of business seek the industries which promise the largest returns
over expenses of production; that men desire to escape, if possible,
the competition of others supplying or consuming like goods and
services; that the utilization of limited natural resources is subject
to the law of diminishing returns; or that goods or services
are valued on the basis of their marginal utilities.
So long as these assumptions remain true, and men are allowed
free choice of occupations and left to determine their relations
to each other by mutual agreement among themselves, the outline
of the theory of exchange and distribution will remain what it is
although additional knowledge will enable us to fill in the outline
more completely than is now possible.

Our social institutions are subject to change and these changes
bring changes in the structure and working of our economic system.
It is of great importance to understand the course and effects
of such changes, but it is equally important to understand
the working of the economic system under the institutions that
exist. Except for considerations of stability and uniformity in
our economic nomenclature it does not seem to be of vital importance


### ---Economics-1920-0-05.txt---
whether we designate as economic theory one or the other
body of knowledge or the -two combined.

There remain many tasks for the student of economic theory,
but I doubt whether as a result of the experience of the war, or of
the progress which has been made in other branches of knowledge,
he is called upon to tear down the structure which has been gradually
built up during the last one hundred and fifty years anid begin
anew. The great problem which faces us today is not the problem
of reconstructing economic theory, but the problem of adequately
developing the art of economics or of what may perhaps be termed
economic engineering.

It is a familiar fact that the economic system which grew out
of the Industrial Revolutioni contains elements of great strength
combined with elements of serious weakness. No onle can deny that
under this system remarkable results have been achieved in extending
the industrial area utilized by people of European origin,
in supplying the world with efficient instruments of production,
and thereby enormously increasing productive power in the aggregate.


The population of Europe in the middle of the eighteenth century
is estimated at 130 millions. At the outbreak of the war the
same region supported over 450 millions in a condition of individual
well-being superior to that of the earlier period, while over 125
millions had been added to people of European descent living in
other portions of the globe. In large measure this achievement
must be attributed to the progress of physical science, but we
can easily pick out elements in our social and political institutions
to which credit is also due.

The principle of individual responsibility of each man for the
support of himself and his family has exerted a force of tremendous
power, compelling to work and tending to preserve a balance
between earning power and the growth of population. The system
of free choice of occupation, combined with freedom of contract
and private property, including the right of inlheritance and bequest,
while it has doubtless been accompanied by great waste, and
produced great inequalities in the distribution of wealth, has also
offered tremendous inducements, not to those confined, by their
lack of initiative or the limitation of their opportunities, to manual
labor, but to those who could succeed in the organization and managemen-
t of industry. These are strong points in an economic
system and are not to be lightly discarded.


### ---Economics-1920-0-06.txt---
There are equally evidlent weaknesses; the waste involvc(l in competition;
the in equiality of opportunity and bargaining power, due
to the unequal distribution of wealth, wlich tends to the formation
of econiomiiic classes and leaves potential capacity undeveloped;
the conflict over the distribution of the product of industry aind
the consequent sense of opposition of interests between those upon
whose hearty cooperation the efficiency of industry depends; the
opportunity to gain wealth through the suppression of competition
and the establishing of monopoly rather than by economic
service; the more or less haphazard character of our industrial adjustments,
involvinig waste and giving rise to alternating periods
of prosperity and depression; the lack of motive in the present
generation for safeguarding the interests of future generations;
this is but a partial list of weaknesses long recognized.
That muclh lias been done to eliminate these weaknesses and mitigate
their evil results I hlave no thought of denying, but, unfortunately
or not, neitlher individuals nor nations are incline(d to
face the serious problems of life until they are forced upon them;
anid it may be truly said that those who have had a controlling
voice in our indcustrial affairs and have prospered most under the
existing system. have been content to let matters drift so far as
the imiost serious probleims of industrial organization are concerned.


There is nothing new in the fact that great nmasses of meen in all
countries are (lissatisfie(d with the structurc- and working of the
existing economic systemrl; what is new, what the experience of
the war lhas mlade clear, is thlat witlh the extension of the suffrage,
education, and organization, these masses have acquired a definiteness
of purpose atnd a power which compels a thoroughgoinig considerationi
and possible reconstruction of our industrial systein, if
its stability is to be preserved.

Aimid the flood of radical proposals which abouind in a period
of world disorganization such as the present it is doubtless easy to
exaggerate the strength of the tendency to fundamental changes
in our social system. Those who are agitating for change are
articuilate and insistenit, but it is difficult to estimate the power
by whiclh they are backed in comparison with the inertia of the
kess articulate masses of the population. It would be foolish, however,
to close our eyes to the possibility of raidical changes in ouir
in(lustrial structure. Outr econom-ic system is exempt from clhange


### ---Economics-1920-0-07.txt---
no more than our political system. The political structure of the
western world lhas undergone radical changes during the last hundred
years and it is clear that democracy carries with it the possibility
of radical changes in industrial structure, brought about
through legal procedure. We are equally blind if we fail to see
that the hundred years which have placed political power in the
hands of the masses of the population have also changed in their
favor the balance of industrial power. These changes clearly foreshadow
chaniges in the structure of our industrial system. The
question is as to the lines which such changes must follow if they
are to be constructive ratlher than destructive and accomplish their
purpose of improving the economic condition of the masses of the
people.

Time is lacking, even had I the ability, to outline in detail the
course wlhiclh we should follow in our industrial readjustments.
M\y purpose is sinmply to call attention to certain facts wlhicl
must be recognized if we are to realize the true nature of our
problenm andcl thus avoid the mistakes and disappointmnent whicl
will follow at!liepts to solve it by methods foredoomed to failure.
There lhas been a general inclination, evident even in the case
of some economiists an(d sociologists, to assume that the problemn of
the production of wealth lhas been solved by the introduction of
power maclhinery and that the only problem wlhiclh remains is the
problem of distribution. This is due I believe to an exaggerated
estimate of the increase of productive power based on a superficial
examination of the facts and to a failure to recognize that
the enormous inicrease in aggregate productive power, which has
undoubtedly taken place, hcas to a considerable extent been absorbed
in the suipport of a popuilation increaising far more rapidly
than at any othler period of the world's history, far more rapidly
in fact than under any coniceivable condition it can continue to
increase.

The tendency to overestimate the increase in per capita productive
power during the last hundred and fifty years results from concentratinog
our attention on the more obvious and overlooking the
less obvious facets in the changes which lhave taken place.
We compare the quantity of cloth turned out in a modern cotton
mill witlh the quiantity wlich could be turned out by the same
numilber of laborers using the spinning wheel and the hand loom,
forgetting the labor whichl has gonle into the construction of the
mill and its equipmenlt and the fact that a large part of the labor


### ---Economics-1920-0-08.txt---
required for the production of cloth is employed on the plantation,
where the increase of productive power has been comparatively
slight. We compare the cost of moving a ton of freight by railway
and by wagon, but we forget that owing to the growth and
expansion of population and to its congestion in limited areas,
devoted to manlufactures and trade, goods must be carried much
longer distances than a century ago. We forget that the increase
in productive power lhas not been uniform throughout the
whole field of industry, that it has been greatest in manufactures,
mining, and transportation, and least in agriculture aiid the handling
of goods in trade, in which branches of industry is employed
a large part of the labor required in the production of the necessaries
of life. Furthermore, our industrial development, accompanied
as it has been by the growth of city life, has imposed upon
us the necessity of providing new forms of wealtlh and services
not required by a less densely settled population, such as paved
streets, sewage systems, costly plants for supplying water, police
service, and protection from fire, and has immensely increased the
difficulty of providing adequate housing.

The instances of increased power of production are striking and
appeal to the imagination. The offsets are not so obvious and are
apt to be overlooked.

Furthermore the great mass of the population which supplies
the manual labor factor in production has not benefited, and in
the nature of the case could not benefit, to the full extent of the
increase in per capita production which has taken. place. This
increase has been mainly due to invention, organization, and the
increase in the per capita equipinent of capital, none of which
would have been forthcoming in anything like the quantity actually
available except on condition of receiving a, share in the product.
Nlo matter what changes we may make in our industrial
organization, we must provide a return to these factors of production.
We may cut down their allowance but we cannot abolish
it except at the cost of industrial progress. That there has
been a substantial increase in real wages during the last hundred
years, with corresponding improvemen-i in the living conditions of
the mass of the population, there can be no question, although it
has probably been less, in this country at least, than would be indicated
by a comparison between money wages and average prices.
The major portion of the laborers' expenises are for food and rent.
Rent is not included in the general price average and has undoubtedly


### ---Economics-1920-0-09.txt---
greatly increased for city laborers, while food lhas risen
relatively to the average.

In certain directions even the lower paid portions of the manual
laboring class have made great gains. Their freedom of movement
and comiiiunication have been immensely increased. They
can acquire the foundations of an education. Through the unification
of the industrial system of the world they have escaped the
danger of recurring periods of extreme hardship due to local
scarcity. They are offered a much larger varie-ty of goods from
which to choose and enjoy certain comforts and luxuries unknown
a century and a half ago. But the iincrease in their productive
power measured in the goods essential to life has been comparatively
small.

The rapid expansion of the industry of the world has been
made possible by an apparently inexhaustible supply of low paid
labor, constantly keeping pace with the demyiand, with the result
that a large par-t of the population of even the wealthiest countries
is living close to the margin of existence. Owing to their
number and the lack of individual efficiency their marginal productivity
has been low.

So far as this low marginal productivity is attributable to excessive
numbers, conditions haive been temporarily, at least, altered
by the war. There are probably ten mnillion fewer laborers in the
western industrial world today than there would have been if
there had been no war. This condition, particularly if it is accompanied
by an increase in individual efficiency, a rapid accumulation
of capital, and a stimulus to invention, offers the possibility
of the creation of a new standard of life sufficiently strong
to control the birth rate and a consequent permanent increase in
the marginal productivity and earning power of manual laborers.
As yet, however, this is only a possibility.

Apparently before the recent fall in the value of money only
about 4 per cent of the families in this country received an income
in excess of $3,000 and seven tenths of one per cent an income
in excess of $10,000.

The success of this small minority and the very large incomes
received by a very few have raised the standard of what is regarded
as a decent and healthful condition of life, have emplhasized
inequality and bred unrest and discontent. More tlhan this,
it has set standards of extravagant expendituire all too readily,
even if naturally, imitated by the manual laborer whenever his


### ---Economics-1920-0-10.txt---
earnings exceed wlhat is required for the necessities of life. But
the fact seems to be thCat the productive power of the nation, offset
as it is by waste and misdirected energy, is still insufficient to
provide very miuch nmore than the means of a bare livrelihood for
all, even if incone were equally distributed.

We must admit that the evidence on this point is not decisive,
for our knowledge of the amoount and distribution of the national
income is far from complete. It is sufficient, however, for estimates
in the approximate accuracy of whiclh we may place considerable
confidence. The most carefully worked out estimates
are those made by King for the United States and Bowley for the
United Kiingdom, both for the period a few years preceding the
war. The results reaclhed in these two independent investigations
tend to create confidence in the substantial accuracy of each, and
both confirm the statements I lhave miade.

King estimated the an-nual product of the United States at
$30,530,000,000, a per cm pita product of $33S2. Bowley es-timate(
l the per capita productt of h-ome industry in tbe Uniite(d
Kliingdomi at about $220, which would be increased to $2140 if we
include t-lie earni-ings of British investmiients in foreign-i countries.
rj1.'e wlhole of this product is, of course, not available for living
expenses. We must deduct the savings require(d for tl-he mnaintenance
an(l development of industry and such portion of taxes
as is not shifted to the consumner and tlhus incluidedI in living expenses.
Kiing estimnated the aninual savings in the United States
at two billions, using as a basis the increasc in the census figures
of wealth between 1900 and 1904, tbe,latest figures then available.
The fgures for 1912 showed that between 1904 anid 1912 the, increase
lhad been at the rate of four billionis. Dedtucting this sum
an(ld an allowance for taxes from the total would leave about 26
billions av(ailable for living expenses. This sum evenily distributed
with due allowance for age distribution, according to the scale
usually employed, wouild yield about $1300 for a famiiily of fathler,
mother, an(l three childrenl under fifteen years of age. According
to Chapin's estimate of 1907 it took $900 to provide for tlme physical
necessities of a lhealthful life for such a family in New York.
To quote bis exact words:

Tt s,'eems safc to conclusde from all the data we have been considerin(r
that an inicomie of under $800 is not enoighm to permit tlie mlaintenance
of a norimial standard. . . . An examination o-f the iteims of thie budget
sliows that the families laving from $900 to $1,000 a year are able, in


### ---Economics-1920-0-11.txt---
general, to get food enough to keep soul and body togetlier, and clotlhingr
tnd slhelter enouglh to iiect the mYlost urgcnt demands of decency.
Apparenitly even in the wealthiest country in the world the annual
product is not sufficient to providle nmore than a very moderate
surplus above whiat is required for the physical necessities of its
people as a wlhole.

According to King's estirnate there were in 1910 over nine million
families, excluding single individuals without dependents, with
incomes of less than $900, about one half of the total of such
families in the country. As already stated, the farmilies with incomes
in excess of $3,000 constitute(l not more than 4 per cent of
the total. From these families niust lhave come the major part of
the savings of the nation. If we lhald taken the whole surplus above
$3,000 froni these families, less their savings, and distributed it
among the poorest classes of the populationi, it might conceivably,
for the moment, haive es-tablished a minimum family income of
$1,000; but it is hardly necessary to argue that nio suclh radical
redistribution of income could be accomplished, eitlher througlh
taxation or an increase of wages at the expense of the other factors
of production without a falling off in production which would:
far exceed the sum distributed.

The production of a large portion of the income in excess of
$3,000 per family was undoubtedly due to the efficiency and savings
of those into whose hands it passed, Avas an essential factor
in stimulating their efficiency and savings, and could by no process
of reasoning be attributed to those among whom we have assume(
l it to be distributed.

I am, of course, aware tLat these figures do not apply today.
Not only have mioiney values doubled, but war lhas affected the
distribution of the national income probably to the advantage of
the well-to-do. Present condlitions are, however, abnormnal. The
war gave a treimen(lous stimulus to productive energy. We called
on h-itherto unused labor power an-d we worked overtime. Tr1here
is bound to be a reaction from. these concditions. It is still too
early to estimate wha-t the permanent eiect of the war will be,
but there can hardly be said to be as yet clear evidences of permanent
increase in per capita produiction.

I do not wislh to minimize the importance of the problem of distribution
or the evil of extrav.agant expeniditure. The smaller tlle
augregate inlcomile, the more im-1portant its equiL ble distribution
and the more reprehiensible extrava,iga,tnt and wastefuil expenditure.


### ---Economics-1920-0-12.txt---
It goes without saying that we should endeavor to cut off every
source of inconme wlhich corresponds to no benefits received by society,
being careful not to overlook the less obvious ways in which
benefit may be derived; but it is clear tlhat if the figures which I
have used at all approximate the truth the remedy for the unsatisfactory
conditions of life of the poorer portion of the population
of even the wealthiest countries must be chiefly sought, not in a
forced redistribution of national income but in the increase of their
marginal productivity, brouglht about by a diminution in their
number, relatively to the other factors of production, an increase
in their efficiency, and in a more intelligent use of the wealth
available.

In so far as a more equal distribution of income is effected by
methods, and the opportunities which it offers used in ways, which
increase the efficiency of those who benefit by it, without corresponding
loss of efficiency elsewh-iere, it is a distinct gain. Otherwise
it is merely a palliative, and, as the figures which I have used
indicate, a palliative of ciomparatively small potency. Palliatives
may be useful, even necessary, if they do not undermine the constitution,
but they are not a cure.

Our problem is not merely a problem in distribution. It is far
more extensive and fundamental. It is a great constructive problem
in social engineering, comprising many elements, and must be
attacked along manv lines of approaclh.

We may distinguish at least five phases.

1. The problem of individual efficiency. This is primarily a
problem of health and education in the broadest sense of the term,
involving not only our school system but the continuation of training
within the shlop and on the farm. Our industrial development
has been so rapid that our educational system has failed to keep
pace with it.

2. The problem of industrial organization of the readjustment
of our industrial mechanisnm in a manner to eliminate waste of
energy and goods, while preserving in their full strengtlh the motive
forces upon which economic progress (epends.

It is in connection with this element of the problem that the
economist canl render Iis greates-t service. The chief difficulty
which faces hiim is the incompleteness of his knowledge of the
actual working of the existing system. A vast inass of information
lhas been gathered in connection w^ith the administration of
our war activities. It is of tl-he first importance that this should


### ---Economics-1920-0-13.txt---
be made available and systematically utilized. In connection with
the administration of the income and excess profits taxes there is
also being gathered information which promises to be of great
value. But we must go farther than this. In co6peration with
the statistician we must work out a more adequate and better coordinated
statistical service, and those in whose hands lie the control
and direction of our industrial system must furnish much
more complete information concerning the operation and results
of the enterprise which they direct. We now require such information
based on prescribed and uniform systems of accounting
from certain enterprises regarded as quasi-public in character.
The field covered by such reports, as well as their scope, must be
gradually extended. Information regularly collected over a
series of years is far more valuable than that furnished by spasmodic
investigations of particular industries, conditions in which,
for one reason or another, attract public attention at the moment.
If there is one fact rather than another which the war has made
clear, it is the fact of the solidarity of our industrial system. Industry
has become socialized, not as the result of any conscious
purpose but by the working of economic forces. As it is organized
today, there is really no such thing as private industry in
the sense in which that term has been used in the past. What we
call private industry is privately managed public industry and
if that system is to endure those who hold positions of responsible
control must be willing to render a full and regular account
of their stewardship.

We need also special investigations which will be valuable in
proportion as they are scientifically conceived and carried out
and are directed to the solution of specific problems.


### ---Economics-1920-0-14.txt---
to command, again an educational problemi, and one of the greatest
(lifficulty.

The thiird phase of the problemn, that of securing lharmonious
and effective cooperation between the factors which make up the
individual industrial establishment, is, I take it, the constructive
aspect of what we term the labor problem.

The labor problem has in the past been commonly discussed as
a problem of distribution and of the control of the conditions under
which laborers work. The reasons why the problem has assumed
this form are evident. The industrial and legal system
which grew out of the Industrial Revolution place authority and
responsibility in the management of industry, and offer the reward
of success, to the entrepreneur class, closely associated with
the capitalist class. The laborer as a human being is left outside
the industrial sclheme. He has neither authority, responsibility,
nior hope of reward beyond his daily wage and the possibility,
open to very few, of escape from his class into the entrepreneur
class. With the rapid increase in the nurrmber of laborers made
possible by the increase in aggregate productive power, the increase
in the size of business units, the lack of continuity in employment,
due to the lack of adjustment in our industrial system,
and the necessity of making an immediate sale of his labor power,
the laborer has become as an individual ever more insignificant.
It is inevitable under these conditions that laborers should organize,
nlot as a constituent element witlhin the system, but for
the purpose of developing a figlhting power which shall enable
them to force from the system an increase in the price paid for
their services, a shortenincg of their hours of labor, and an improvernent
in the conditions under whichl they work.

That good h.as come from the increase or power which laborers
have secured through organization, that it has forced a more
equitable distribution of income than would otherwise have existed,
that it has improved the conditions under which the nasses of
men labor, that it has force(d more efficient methods of production
on the employer, and tlhat experience in the work of organization
and negotiation has exercised a valuable educational influence on
the laborer himself cannot be denied.

The fundamental weakness from the point of view of production
has, however, continued to exist. Those who control one of
the essential factors of production remain cutside the system as a
meclhaniism for the production of wealtlh, organized not for cooperation


### ---Economics-1920-0-15.txt---
in the increase of the commnron product but for the imiprovement
of their own condition regardless of or even at the expense
of such increase, for wlhiclh they feel no sense of responsibility.
Where harmony and cooperation are essential for production,
dislharmony and conflict prevail, a conflict which, with the
growing complexity of our industrial inechanism and the growing
strength of labor organizations, threatens the stability of our
whole economic system.

To state the case is to suggest the remedy. Laborers Imlust be
incorporated into the industrial scheme. They miust be given the
voice and responsibility in management, and the hope of reward
for successful effort, which they have h:itherto lacked. Harmony
between men engaged in a conmmon enterprise depends upon personal
contact and conference with full knowledge of the facts by
all concerned, a willingness to sacrifice momentary personal advantage
to the promotion of the common interest anid to submit
to discipline. Interest and a feeling of responsibility exist only
with a sense of power, of having a voice in the determination of
the methiods employed to bring ablout the rc-sult achieved.
These statements may indicate a very inadequate social psychology.
Our social psychlologists can fill out the picture anil
teaclh us the nature of the lhuman instincts with wllich we have to
deal. Our efficiency enigineers can instruct us in the methods of
the organization of work and the adjustmpent of earnings; but
they must study their problem from the point of view not merely
of profits but with consideration of the perinanent well-being and
harmony of interest of all concerned.

This incorporation of laborers must take place first in each industrial
unit. The laborer's sense of responsibility an(d interest,
if it is to be a vital force, must attach itself to tle establislhment
in which he works. There will always remain, however, questions
affecting wlhole branchles of industry whiclh must be settled by conference
between the representatives of the employers anld employees
in the industry as a whole, and questions affecting the relations
between different branches of industry calling for conference
between the representatives of these classes in the nation at large.
We accomplished much in the way of temporary adjustments
along these lines unrder the impulse of the war spirit. The peace
problemn is more difficult, but if our peace spirit is equal to our
war spirit it is not insoluble.

Laborers cannot be expected to give up the advan-tages of organization


### ---Economics-1920-0-16.txt---
and collective bargaining won tllrough long years of
struggle, but they inust be educated to realize that only through
cooperation with the employer in tbe increase of production can
laborers as a body acquire their maximumn earning power, that
any advantage obtained by a special group in the form of higher
wages accompanied by decreased per capita production and the
spreading out of work is obtained at the expense of the rest of the
community and is negatived by like succe-ss on the part of other
groups.

Employers cannot be expected to give up their responsibility for
management and the protection of the property interests which
they control, but they must be educated to realize the lesson emphasized
by the war, that there is really no such thing as private
industry, that, in the last analysis, they represent the nation and
that tlleir tenure depends upon their ability to organize effectively
the nation's productive resources and maintain harmonious relations
between those who must co6perate in industry. Success in
this task and not profits, except as they measure such success, is
the true measure of their efficiency. It would be foolish to begrudge
large rewards to those who succeed, but the task must be
performed or iother forms of industrial organization will be tried.
Until we can develop an intelligent public opinion on these fundamental
questions there is little hope of harmony in our industrial
life.

The alternative is a continuation of the struggle for control
which contains little iof promise. If we have erred in the past in
offering the laborer nothing but wages and giving him no voice
or responsibility in the organization and operation of the industry
in which he is engaged, there seems to be no reason to believe that
we should fare better if we put labor in absolute control, placing
capital and organizing and managing ability on a fixed stipend,
but denying them an effective voice in management and control.
I doubt whether human nature differs essentially as between economic
classes, whether we can expect better results from the dominance
of one class than of another, and whether we can eliminate
industrial conflict by eliminating the voice and the responsibility
of the capitalist and the entrepreneur in industry. The conflict
between classes would be replaced by struggle between different
groups of laborers. This struggle is suppressed while thle laborers
combine to fight the employer, but there is plenty of evidence
that it exists.


### ---Economics-1920-0-17.txt---
Nor does the success so far achieved in tlhe field of business administration
by officers directly or indirectly dependent upon

popular vote create confidence that such a change in the control
of industry would contribute to efficiency or progress. If one
party or the other must exercise exclusive control, the weight of
argument is in favor of the class which has a property interest at
stake.

In the past, progress in the field of politics and industry has
usually come through conflict of opposing interests. Are we yet
ready to substitute conference and cooperation in seeking the solution
which promrrises most for tlle common interests of all? It
seemed for a monient at the close of the war that we were, but recent
events can hardly be described as encouraging.

In an industrial society based on division of occupations, it is
impossible to secure harmony of immediate interests between economic
classes, whether seller and buyer, borrower and lender, or
employer and employee, just as it is impossible to secure harmony
of immediate interests between nations. Such harmony simply
does not exist. It is not impossible to secure a working basis for
cooperative action recognized by all concerned as based on reasonable
principles and promising to each better results in the long
run than could be obtained through conflict. All that is necessary
is a knowledge of the facts involved and the dominance of the
spirit of reason and far-sightedness.

There are many problems of great inmportance connected with
the coordination and smooth-working of cur extremely complex
economic system and with the distribution of its burdens and rewards,
but the fundamnental problem is still what it always has
been, the problem of increased per capita production and of the
rational and economical use of wealtlh, not a temporary increase
brought about uinder conditions which in the long run diminish
productive power and involve the sacrifice of tlhings more important
than wealth, but a permanent increase, resting on individual
efficiency, effective co6peration, and the adjustment of the number
of the population to the supply of natural resources upon
which it must in the last analysis subsist.
 ## Economics-1921-0


### ---Economics-1921-0-01.txt---
To fix the bearing of what I have to say, it is at the outset well to
make clear my point of view.

I believe that the democratic political movement in the civilized world
is likely to overbear all opposition: that the immediate political future
I hope, also, the ultimate political future is with democracy. Thus, I
am concerned to examine the terms on which the political democracy of
the future can be an enduring and a worth while thing.
I am, that is to say, convincedly-even, I suspect, dogmatically-a
democrat, in the sense that I believe thoroughly in popular government,
in the equality of individuals, in political rights and responsibilities, as
also in the high and substantive value of freedom in its own behalf. I
do not, however, ascribe to political freedom any essential sanctity of
ultimate or natural or inevitable rightness. I hold it, instead, to be an
issue of time and place and circumstance, as fit only for those people
that are fit for it. Democracy may easily approach to the worst of
all forms of government-in danger of being no government at all, but
mere license, disorder, revolution and counter-revolution-in the degree
that any people falls short of meeting its severe requirements. A
populace incapable of understanding its own needs, but attempting to
rule in its own interest, is almost certain to blunder into its own great
harm. It might better rely on such incidental welfare as may befall
from an intelligent and efficient government conducted primarily in another
interest. The present cult of democracy is undiscriminating.
But democracy at its credible best carries with it the highest assurance
of human welfare, precisely because it is the only government in which
the welfare of the governed becomes the direct and the ultimate problem
of the governors.

Political democracy is doubtless as readily possible in a collective as
in a competitive economic order; perhaps, indeed, is more easily possible,
in the sense of making call for a less vigilant intelligence. But I
amn not a socialist, if for no other or better reason than that I am un-
,able to make out what the socialistic ideal-the family writ large, the
brotherhood of man-would concretely turn out to be or do. I just


### ---Economics-1921-0-02.txt---
don't get it. But further I hold with the practical working necessity
of competition, and of competition within, as well as without, the economic
field-only that also I seem to myself to know that it is not all
wholesome, and that some of its unregulated workings are pernicious
and extremely dangerous, not merely 'directly to the general welfare
but to the very perpetuity of competitive institutions. A regulated
competition I take to be imperative, if competition is to be and to remain
a tolerable system. Successful competitive institutions, I hold,
require an intelligent guidance, which, so far, they have measurably
lacked, and in that lack have seriously and essentially suffered. The
most dangerous menace to the competitive order I take to be with those
partisans of it who resist iesolutely all change or amelioration of it.
There is a better service. Lowell, we recall, could best attest his love
of his country by his intense loathing of its shame. I hold, as for that
matter do also the Guild Socialists, that no system, tlloroughgoing and
systematically noncompetitive, could be tolerable at all. But the competitive
system needs to be made tolerable and, as I hold, can be made
tolerable, but not by the method of eliminating all coercive regulation
and restriction of it.

Essential, therefore, to the success of those voluntary co6perations
that are the characteristic traits of competition are the compulsory cooperations
that are in ultimate principle socialistic. Government, for
whatever there is of it, is so far an expression of the collective principle.
Believing, therefore, in the present order of society in its general
outlines, I believe also in the limited acceptance of the socialistic
principle. To get along without government-a systematic and unlimited
individualism, the competitive principle at its utmost extension
-I esteem as little as a government coercive over the entire economic
field, an unlimited and systematic collectivism.

So much as this, however, is obviously neither a radical nor a conservative
pronouncement. Instead, it is a mere commonplace of practical
policy. In the very institution of government the commonsense
of the world has recognized the necessity of limitations imposed on individual
activities, gain getting as well as other. Systematic laissez
faire is as thoroughly discredited as systematic collectivism ought to
be. The antithetical principles of liberty and of compulsion are good,
each in its own place and degree. The problem is one of articulation
and of adjustment between them. Wherever the ends or the methods of
individual striving conflict with the common good, there is the sphere of
the state, restrictive or coercive. Such is the plain meaning of the law
and order jurisdiction, the enforcement of contracts, the decree of
damages against torts, the enactment of pure-food laws, the license


### ---Economics-1921-0-03.txt---
or the regulation of products and of markets. When the individual
effort at gain appears to concur with the common good, as in the growing
of corn or the spinning of cotton-perhaps also in the culture of
silk and in the providing of champagne, face powder, and cigarettesthe
state may well keep hands off. All interference is a question of
expediency and not of ultimate ethical imperatives, a problem of the
costs and perplexities of the attempted control set over against the
putative good to be achieved. But government, the coercive control of
some things, is as necessary as are any of the things controlled. It is
only the anarchist that condemns all collectively coercive activities.
There is, then, as little validity in the wholesale denunciation of collectivism
as in the wholesale advocacy of it. The all-inclusive governmental
problem is to conform the working of individual activity to the
interests of the common welfare. For it is obvious that the sum of
individual welfares can report the sum of general welfare only so far
as the individual good is attained neither through parasitism nor predation.
A rational society will combine liberty and authority. Always
the problem is to draw lines of wise adjustment between the antithetical
principles. Subjected, then, to the test of the common good, neither
collectivism nor individualism can make its exclusive case. The proximate
ideal of society, perhaps also the ultimate ideal (about this last
I know something less even than I care) is that of individualism, collectively
controlled and supplemented-competition under collective
limitation. Never in society has there workably been, nor ever, as I
hold, will there wisely be, nor ever-in the absence of cataclysmic and
disastrous change-will there credibly be a systematic collectivism or
a systematic individualism or, for that matter, a systematic and logical
anything else. Under conditions of orderly and wholesome development,
systematic collectivism equally with systematic anarchism is a
dream of mad logicians. As well look for flourishing life under absolute
zero of cold or in unlimited heat. Societies are not thus monistic.
They are dualistic in principle of organization, precisely because they
are societies made up of individuals.

I protest then against the wastes of intellectual energy and of practical
effectiveness that attend the division of forward-looking men into
opposing doctrinaire schools of thought as to ultimate ideals in social
organization or as to the ultimate destination of society. I urge that
all constructive emphasis be centered on the near-by things. The thing
to do is always the next thing. It is a tragic waste of social forces to
divide on remote and rear-ground issues. The immediate problems are
difficult enough and are pressing. With the ameliorative program so
conceived and so limited, the agreements are vastly more important than


### ---Economics-1921-0-04.txt---
the differences. Only so can the next thinigs get done. Single-taxers
and socialists, for example, should postpone their issues of ultimate institutional
programs-their antithesis of individualistic as against collective
ethical presuppositions-so long as the doctrinal positions concur
in proscribing private property in natural bounty. Only when practical
policies diverge because of differences in theory are theoretical
dissensions to the purpose. When what to do is not at issue, it is folly
to fall to quarreling about why. The immediate problems of progress,
the policies common to programs ultimately divergent, are enough to
absorb all present attention and effort. So long as for every type of
progressive thought, a step is recognized as in the right direction, it is
mere blundering to complicate the case with the issues that can waitthat
as unactual are for the purposes unreal. Go along with your
neighbor till your paths diverge. To the socialist all merchandising
is parasitic. To me, these activities tend merely to proliferate into
extreme wastes. There should then be agreement on measures of limitation-
say, high license taxes. If actual taxation is working regressively
on private wealth and income, socialists and individualists may
unite in efforts toward a system less obnoxious to the ideals of both.
Higher inheritance taxes? Yes, say I, who, in order that the competitive
system may both endure and deserve to endure, would check economic
stratification, would hinder the emergence of differentials and
handicaps: if also the socialist says yes, as directed by his opposition
to private property in general, we can so far work together instead of
at cross purposes. Our differences are not actual. We desire the
same particular thing, the thing at hand, only for different ends.
Join we then to get the thing that we both now want. Later we may
contest in another field. Sufficient unto each day are the quarrels
thereof. I advocate progressive taxation in general in order to mitigate
the economic inequality that in my view is putting in hazard the political
and economic democracy of the competitive order. If to my socialistic
neighbor the same policy appeals as a step toward the abandonment
of the competitive order, it is still true that on either basis of
policy the thing is good. Our hopes diverge merely as to what will
come of it. I would have the officers of justice public functionaries,
and justice free not dear, and therefore only for the rich, and therefore
not justice-as also now I approve of free schools and free police
protection: and all of this not because I am a socialist but because I
am not; because, solicitous to preserve the competive order, I fear and
deplore its inadequacies and excesses. Some among all the things that
the socialist condemns I also condemn, but from the standpoint of another
ideal. Not in denying his criticisms where they are due, but in
admitting and then helping to remove them, is my best service to my


### ---Economics-1921-0-05.txt---
cause. That also the socialist wants these ameliorations because he is
a socialist, leaves it none the less true that he wants them. So far
we may work together. Because I desire equality in competition, I
want to be rid of property in privilege, in tolls, in restrictions of output,
in nostrums, in every ill good-will. With whomsoever also wants
to be rid of them I am glad to make common cause. I want a fair and
intelligent and adequate trial of the possibilities of competition for
human welfare, before the question of its abandonment for unknown
things is to attain the dignity of a present issue. Thus with another
man who takes these methods of amelioration of the existing order as
merely steps toward getting altogether rid of it, I have no present
quarrel. That he wants to improve it is enough for me, no matter what
may be his ultimate end. I also want to improve it-to the ultimate
end of preserving it. So improved, I hold it likely better to serve the
ends of human life than any new thing that he can offer as substitute
for it. My mistake? It may be. We shall see about it then. Meanwhile
now he is welcome to his own line of prophecy, as later, in its due
and appropriate time, he will be welcome to his own line of effort, divergent
from mine.

And now I arrive at positions perhaps more controversial. The society
to which as working ideal I pin my faith is a consistently democratic
society, a society of competitive equality; not, however, a society
of economic equality, so far as individual powers and accomplishment
must and will differ, but of inequality limited solely to differences
in individual ability and achievement; a society free of differentials of
privilege or of inherited opportunity; a society in which men may be
unequal solely by the title of individual gifts and accomplishment, but
equal still in all their objective conditions; a society of equality only
in the sense of equality of opportunity, where it can be only in the subjective
sense, never in the objective, that a man have no chance, that
he arrive in the world not less obviously damned into it than born into
it. And this means that a competitive society progressively stratifying
through the passing down from one generation to another of the differentials
inevitably emerging in each generation, I hold to be a society
that by the test both of its worth and of its promise of endurance
is grievously sick.

This credo, I admit, or that part of it that sounds in the ethical
emphasis, makes a not much better claim to validity than may attach
to any mere act of faith. Such with me in point of derivation it doubtless
was. I offer now no support of it; though, as ex post facto to its
getting, I think I have come into some reasons for holding it-considerations
of the aggregate serviceability of income, of competitive


### ---Economics-1921-0-06.txt---
consumption, of standards of living imposed by the haves that can and
pursued by the have-nots that can't; of the rainbow fading-out of
affirmative enjoyment into drab necessity; of the racial menace of declining
birth-rates; of the dreary futility and the spreading harm of
the decorative life for women-questions for the discussion of which
there is here no time.

All the more urgently, then, not as matter of inscrutable faith but
only of sheer factual outlook, I stress my assumiption that democracy is
coming. And, if so, I insist, economic institutions that shall make
room for it there must imperatively be, on penalty ultimately of a
fundamental reconstruction of society or of the debacle of civilization.
New social forces are preparing. With the man whose ideals of worth
incline to political or economic aristocracy I offer, I repeat, no confident
issue. His faith-just another faith it is-may be the right one
as to the organization of society which, if attainable and workably
enduring, would be best. It is doubtless arguable that with the intelligent,
according to the test of their own or their progenitor's success
in the pecuniary competition, shall wisely go the governing of
society, while the rest of us shall accept our welfare as an incidental
by-product of a government conducted by them in furtherance of their
own interests and purposes. But I judge that in any case this is not
to be. In this connection I note a recent declaration of faith by Mr.
Charles M. Schwab: "I am not a socialist. I believe in aristocracy;
but only because I believe that the aristocracy of this country is the
aristocracy of men and women who do things-the aristocracy of accomplishment.
" More important with me, however, than the faith that
the aristocratically competitive order ought not to be, is the factual
conviction that it canniot enduringly be, and that the effort to achieve
or to maintain it is fraught with great intermediate dangers and penalties.
I proceed on the frank assumption that, for better or for worse,
political democracy is to come, and that, as intelligently as may be,
place must be made for it.

But it is neither mere faith nor dogmatic prophecy to assert that
political and economic democracy cannot exist apart. It is a foolish
temerity and an improvident stupidity to attempt to articulate political
democracy with economic aristocracy. One or the other must in the
long reckoning perish. On the issues both of fact and of worth I am a
democrat in the economic sense because I am a democrat in the political
sense. I take it, therefore, that the modern world has to face the
question whether it will have political democracy under the competitive
order as over against some form of democratic collectivism. This issue
needs squarely to be faced. To plan for competition and for aristocracy


### ---Economics-1921-0-07.txt---
is to hazard both. I plead for radicalism to conservative ends,
for a progressive conservatism.

I hold it, therefore, to be our enduringly serious blunder in the conduct
of the great war that we failed to realize the long meanings of the
financial policies that we followed. We have now promptly to take account
of our newly emerging dangers. In point of degree the war has
vastly added to the perplexities of our institutional life by further solidifying
the economic stratification of society. The world has now to
reckon with 250 billions of war debts. The peace with Germany was
made to turn upon adding to its domestic war debt further billions of
debt to be externally held and collected. Consider the domestic debt
alone. These forty billions of war bonds are a promise that for an indefinite
future from the taxpayers of Germany the bondholders shall enjoy
a two billion dollar revenue. We did not substitute our own claims
for these but added ours to these-and all of this is our solicitude for the
domestic peace and the institutional democracy of Germany. Not only
do we leave it to the German taxpayers instead of to the malefactor
classes to provide our scant indemnity-and to our own taxpayers to
meet the deficit-but we allow to the malefactor classes two billion dollars
of annual revenues at the cost of their victim classes-enhanced
class wealth and enhanced mass poverty-not that we have so little
care but so little understanding of democracy and its needs. Even if
the rulers of Germany shall cease to plot wars, the peace which we leave
to the German people they cannot abide. For them it is an intolerable
poverty that has its cause and correlate in class wealth. Germany will
hardly win through to democracy excepting on terms of some sort of
repudiation; peaceable conceivably, disorderly probably, revolutionary
possibly. We have made no gift of democracy. Democracy is, I still
believe, to arrive in Europe, but only as the need and aspiration gain
the necessary strength to override the new barriers that the war has
erected and that the peace has reinforced.

I urge, in sum, that the present problem of the institutional conservative
is the establishment and the maintenance of economic democracy.
Failing of tlhis, we shall at the best provide solely the forms but never
the realities that are at the heart of democratic institutions. We shall
decline to the dangerous and temporary equilibrium of the servile state
-the aristocratic competitive order-to end either in a return finally
to the ways of equalitarian competition, or in social disintegration, or
in a drifting out upon the unplumbed, uncharted, and perhaps shoreless
seas of democratic socialisin. Or there is, it may be, one other way:
Guild Socialism may get a hearing, a captivating and not ineredible
compromise between the collective and the competitive principles,
equally unfittingly to be named either socialism or anarchism.


### ---Economics-1921-0-08.txt---
For those of us, therefore, who, convinced that democracy must
come, are glad to welcome it-who are not socialists, who instead regard
with favor the going institutions of working compromise between
the extremes of systematic anarchism and systematic collectivism, who
look ahead in limitless foreboding to the hazards and horrors of any
cataclysmic change, who have scant faith in the promise of any better
order into which these changes could finally lead-it is for us to ask
ourselves the terms on which the political democracy that is to come
can be harmonized with the competitive economic order. And thus,
once again, we return to examine what, in its economic aspect, the war
has meant, the problems which it has imposed, the solutions that it has
left possible. For we believe in political democracy as also we believe
in economic democracy, in the sense, be it repeated, that we hold neither
to be in essentials enduringly possible excepting in the presence of the
other.

It is now to be emphasized that the world war has not left the world
impoverished, for the sole reason that it could not. Wars are supported
out of current social product simply because they have to be.
It is present dearth as it is present death that war imposes. The poverty
of public debts is a fallacy, excepting in the purely separatist
sense that a national debt may be held by foreign creditors-the consumption
of the warring country supported out of the current supplies
of the creditor country. But just as in a national inventory of wealth
all domestic relations of debt and credit cancel out, so in a world accounting
all international debts must disappear.

In the main, these war debts are domestically held. And such part
of them as are held outside the country of their issue are held in the
allied countries. The present tragedy of want in Europe reports, for
the most part, not the impoverishment of resources by the war nor the
national indebtedness remaining over from it but only a paralysis of
current industry-a war legacy of disorder and disorganization, or
the dire gift of post-war diplomacy-new imperialisms, and continued
wars. It is not chiefly by the depletion of capital funds but by the
interruption of income flow that Europe lacks for supplies, precisely
as in the war years it was not out of capital resources but out of current
production that the war was supported.

No? But it has become as commonplace as self-evident that no
future item of product can function as supply for either the civilian
or the military needs of any warring country. Neither war loans, nor
war taxes, nor any other loan or tax, can make possible the present
consumption of a prospective product. Old Sir Thomas Browne saw
this truth clearly: "He had caught a great cold had he no other clothes


### ---Economics-1921-0-09.txt---
to wear than the skin of a bear not yet killed." An exterior loan
merely places a warring nation in control of exterior current products,
through the promise of a later and offsetting return of the products
of a later time. Domestic loans control only domestic goods of current
supply. Like taxes, loans distribute purchasing power over current
goods in favor of the government; but, unlike taxes, they provide
for a later redistribution of the goods that the future will produce.
Loans and taxes differ not at all in point of the current national resources
out of which the support of the war must be provided. The
differences attach solely to later accountings of principal and interest
to creditors, creditors who might instead have been taxpayers. Equally,
whether by loans or taxes, subtractions from current individual incomes
there must inevitably be, so far as war is to be supported at
all. Whoever can buy bonds can pay taxes. The taxes terminate in
slips of paper that are receipts, the loans provide slips of paper that
are the beginnings of other things-contractual slips of paper, promising
redistributions of future incomes and secured by first liens against
these future incomes. But the future incomes do not thereby become
presently available for present needs. The bonds induce the voluntary
grant of present income. Taxes get the same results coercively out of
the same resources of present goods. Distinctions of equity, tactical
expediency, admrinistrative complexity, class pressure, and general intelligibility
are another matter. Doubtless the opposition to war is
less if profits to many and costs to none are in general expectation.
Equally, for the most part, is war support impossible out of wealth
remaining over from the past. Most of it-houses, lands, factories,
equipment, furniture-is unavailable for present consumption either
civilian or miilitary; it is goods serving as intermediates toward product
but themselves not final products for consumption. Stored up
war supplies-munitions, equipment, war bread-are doubtless possible,
but only in relatively meager volumes. Something also is possible, so
far as deterioration can practically be carried, in making past production
directly tributary to present emergencies. So again, goods for
civilian consumption may not merely be economized-consumption restricted-
but can be worn out without current replacement, whereby
productive forces may be so far set free for military purposes. But
the sum of all of these levies on the past bulks small in relation to the
total war requirement. In the large it still holds true that present war,
like present peace, must pay its way as it goes.

The irrelevancy of bullion supplies, of banking reserves, and of facilities
for currency expansion-or the worse than irrelevancy-is thus
evident, so far as the fundamentals of war finance are concerned. Wars
are questions of those margins of productive energy and output that


### ---Economics-1921-0-10.txt---
are left available for military purposes, after civilian consumption is
provided for. Governmental outpourings of clipped coin or of paper
money are long-discredited fallacies. But equally also was our vaunted
preparedness in gold reserves for credit expansion a mere preparedness
for inflation. The realities in the situation these influences barely
brush. Easy credit is not easy or plentiful product. New dollars will
not clothe or feed men. More of the dollars is not more ships, cannon,
ammunition, or more men to be spared from industry for the camps
and the firing lines, or for supplying military goods to the embattled
men. As armies march on their stomachs, so wars proceed on something
more substantial than mere necromancy- on a more effective
provisionment than the present shadows of coming things-not on the
present worth of no matter how credible promises, secured never so
well against incomes which as yet are not. Social unrealities a plenty
there are in competitive individual wealth. But the actualities of war
leave no place for intangible assets. True it is that one may sell his
individual wealth and buy bonds. But not all may sell to one another
to the result that all may buy bonds. And even if they could the supplies
to be purchased would be no whit the greater.

Our credit devices of war finance, whether wise or unwise by the test
of their total effects, and whether just or unjust by the test of the
ultimate distribution of burdens, were processes that for every strictly
war purpose moved merely upon the surface of things. For a people
like ours that must provision and munition its own war-to say nothing
of financing its associates-the essentials of success lay in the current
productive efficiency of its industry, as supplemented by the most rigorous
economy in civilian consumption-the utmost speeding up of the
one, the utmost practicable retardation of the other. The past but
little and the future not at all could serve for the purpose. At the
best, the financial processes were merely devices of guidance and adj
ustment.

Certain other issues become equally clear. The choice of financial
policies lay not between taxes or loans on the one side as over against
credit inflation on the other. It was between taxes and inflation.
Taxes from ultimate income and loans from ultimate income are doubtless
indistinguishable in certain of their effects. If only the funds are
secured out of ultimate incomes, it need not matter that the scrap of
paper that is a contract one may use as collateral for borrowing and
that the scrap of paper that is a receipt one can not. The bonds that
so readily lend themselves to inflation need not of strict necessity be so
used. The banks might be led to refrain from carrying the paper, or
could have been prohibited, or might have been subjected to such reserve


### ---Economics-1921-0-11.txt---
requirements as to have lacked the disposition-measurably difficult
expedients, doubtless, all of them. But the decisive fact is that no
ultimate income borrowing could have been made to suffice for the need.
For a great war this method will not serve. No credible rate of interest
will attract the necessary degree of sacrifice, imposing sufficiently
drastic subtractions from individual incomes and the necessary restriction
of individual consumption. This can be accomplished, not by the
methods that work through inducement, but only by the taxes that leave
no choice. Nor could any rate of interest seriously effective in this
connection have avoided so drastic recapitalizations of property and
security values as to precipitate a financial hurricane. And correlative
bank rates must have been maintained, or directly or indirectly the
banks would have absorbed, on inflation terms, the issues of bonds. If
we were to rely on gigantic borrowing for war funds, we had to follow
the inflation method. Taxation was the sole alternative.
Doubtless it must be admitted that drastic taxation-there was no
escape from something drastic excepting in a small war-carries with
it dangers similar to those of high interest borrowing, but only in
minor degree. With narrowing residual incomes, some holders of securities
and other properties will be pressed to sell to get free funds.
Interest rates must advance appreciably, but not at all in the degree
attending the loan process-precisely because the necessary restrictions
of civilian consumption are left not to choice under the inducement of
higher interest rates but instead to the coercion of taxes. It is in
favor of taxes also that when one pays the tax he knows that he is so
far the poorer. The buyer of bonds feels himself an investor, as
actually he is. Bonds placed with banks or carried by them for buyers
bring inflation, huge and swollen national debts, future taxes, inflation-
swollen, upward shifting prices-and therewith such increased
civilian economy as rising prices on the one side may afford as against
rising profits on the other. Borrowing from ultimate incomes, in the
degree of its possibility, brings only a slight inflation, no appreciable
upward shift of general prices, future taxes, economy of civilian consumption,
sharp advances in interest rates, and a disastrous readjustment
in property and security values. Taxation brings an even less
appreciable inflation, a closer approximation to stability in prices, a
more marked economy in civilian consumption, relatively slight changes
in interest rates, and a relative immunity from financial disturbance.
Had America followed the English rates of taxation, it need not, I believe,
have resorted to either type of borrowing.

And here the analysis returns to my main point of emphasis. Taxes
avoid bonds. Because the war was financed in the main by the inflating


### ---Economics-1921-0-12.txt---
bond-credit method, the world faces a situation altogether new in its
seriousness.

It is, in strictness, no part of my problem to; appraise the weight
of the war costs that somehow we carried and somehow had to carry.
If, relatively to our carrying ability, these were so light that noninflation
methods of loan finance could have served, so also the alternative
taxes could have been light. Modern war, waged even in a nearby
field, requires for each soldier in the ranks two tributary civilian workers.
Our three and one half millions of men, allowing for their transport
requirements, called for eight or more millions of tributary producers.
The bread-winners of the country numbered approximately
forty millions, many of these, however, not socially productive. The
less than thirty remaining millions had to make good these withdrawals
of men and to supply the soldiers and tributary workers with their
quotas of goods of ordinary civilian requirement. I take five million
of combatants to have been the limit of our utmost possible contribution
to the war. As it was, our supplies ran continuously short of our
commitments-warships, freighters, transports, submarines, airplanes,
cannon, machine guns, small arms, ammunition, blankets. It was things
that were lacking for our war funds to buy.

Whoever holds then, as I do not, that our per capita product of
civilian goods for civilian consumption was maintained in the war years,
proclaims merely, and as I think exaggerates, the ineptitude of America'
s economic participation in the war. Even if, in the speeding-up
aspect, our war record was all that is claimed for it as offsetting the
enormous war absorptions of men and of products, the record would
remain still profoundly humiliating. We came perilously near to losing
the war. It is only in the degree of possible civilian economies
that, in the main, war is now and always has been possible. Both the
magnitude and the methods of modern warfare are solely explicable
through the increasing margins of product available, above civilian requirements,
for the things of war. In the progress of the industrial
arts, therefore, are the explanations for the surpassing size, the surpassing
expensiveness, and the surpassing horrors of modern war. So
far, then, as the wisdom and spirit of peace lag behind industrial
progress, the primitive man may easily have been the more fortunate
man-our tree of knowledge heavy with bitter fruit.
In some sense it is beside my point, also, to stress further the fact,
that those inflation methods have vastly swollen the monetary statement
of the national debts. But in this fact is the decisive argument
against deflation. The bond issues have mortgaged our monetary policies.
The governments of the world are near enough to fiscal insolvency


### ---Economics-1921-0-13.txt---
already-not, however, I repeat, to national insolvency. The injustices
also are great enough, with tle debts restricted to their present
burden. The men who forfeited positions and earning power to face
the chances of death have enough to pay if, winning out to return at
all, they repay to us stay-at-homes in cheap dollars the cheap dollars
that we advanced as support of their dangerous adventure. And on
these terms also their children and their children's children will have
enough to pay to ours.

Conceivably, I admit, it might be good ethics-if only also it were
possible-that future generations should share with the present generation
the costs of a war that, in no small part, will enure to the future
advantage, even though it be also probable that these coming generations
will have their own wars to fight-and, it may be, the more of
them to fight by the very fact that, vastly increased in numbers, they
must find their living in a world grievously impoverished by our own
excesses and prodigalities. But this thing-take it to be never so
just-cannot be. In that future time this present generation will rank
as a past generation. Dead and departed, it can have no payments
made to it. No payments can ever be made by one generation but to
itself. It will be only the grandchildren of some of us that will get paid
at the cost of the grandchildren of others of us. Solely in the sense
of this redistributive bearing on the future, can burdens be passed on.
So fatr, truly, as the benefits of the war are enduring, there is a gift
by us to the future-but a gift in its nature common to the children
of all of us. But for some of these children the gift is to take on also
the quality of a pecuniary asset. The other children will pay these
first for the gift provided for all. Wisely, then, these inheritors of
debt in favor of correlatively inheriting creditor grandchildren will
adapt to their own case Lloyd-George's challenge of the British land
system: "Why are fifty millions of us Englishmen trespassers in the
land of our birth?"

Nor is this all of the truth. In large part the bonds were purchased
out of inflation-awarded margins of profit. The masses who
paid once in the form of these margins the money by which the profitmakers
bought the bonds will later pay in taxes the cash to meet the
accruing interest charges and finally also to retire the bonds.
I am not concerned to join issue with anyone on the quiestion of the
practical inevitability of these enormous national debts. I admit that,
in the lack of any general understanding of their ultimate meanings
and their long effects, in the easy and improvident opportunism of
political life, and in the want of wisely brave leadership, nothing else
was credibly possible. I charge no faults of purpose anywhere. But
that the wealth of the country would not have borne whatever share of


### ---Economics-1921-0-14.txt---
the general burden it could recognize as its duty I do not believe. Had
the social necessity and the personal and institutional justice of the
conscription of current income been understood-the conscription of
wealth was nonsense-I believe that the war idealism of America would
have accepted the taxes as contentedly as it accepted the selective
draft. The truth is merely that we didn't know. We had not thought
it out. The fundamentals of war finance were, even to the economists,
an unknown field. We had busied ourselves with other things-the
processes and the problems of peace. Thus by error and drift we allowed
our war for political democracy to go far toward making democracy
impossible, carrying us thus dangerously forth in the direction
of those economic institutions in which political democracy cannot
thrive. We have blundered into our almost irremediable harm. We
have mortgaged our political institutions, and therewith have hazarded
either the perpetuity or the worth not only of these but of the competitive
economic order. Both must be democratic if they are to deserve
to endure, probably also if they are actually to endure.
But most of the evil effects of the war, as also some of the good,
will pass with the lapsing years. The international bitterness will disappear,
even if to the sole end of making place for others. The injustices,
the hardships, the suspicions, and the protests attending the
inflation process will fall out of recollection. The earth scars will
grow green with the changes of new springs. The war dead passed
promptly out of the domain of our problems. The war-maimed and
the war-invalided will early arrive at their infallible ways of cure. Time
will shortly have assuaged the pangs and stilled the sobs of bereavement;
or, if there come no earlier surcease, to these pangs the sun and
the rain will offer solace and these sobs the grass will muffle, the things
of yesterday ranking with all the other tales that are told-the done
and gone no part of that human experience to which the current life
is grianting its new meed of happy living.

But still not all things pass. These institutional effects of the war
in the stratification of wealth will remain with us. To these nightmare
debts no similar principle of passage or of mortality attaches. Their
life stretches indefinitely beyond the individual life, to match it, it may
be the span of racial o,r institutional duration. But surely, as I hold,
from this long-enduring body of death, the democracy of the future will
greatly stir to shake itself free. I believe also that it will succeed,
and will succeed within the limits of the orderly development of competitive
institutions. But I hold that, failing of the wisdom or the
determination for this effort, and acquiescing in this burden of debt,
democracy cannot remain democracy.


### ---Economics-1921-0-15.txt---
But, after all, how, within the present institutional situation, with its
actual distribution of leverage and power, shall the democraticallyminded
masses hope for success? Revolutionary thinkers declare it to
be impossible, consistently with the orderly processes of political development.
My belief-my faith, if you please-is other. I hold
that it is precisely through the progressive understanding and the enlightened
decision of the classes with which this power land leverage
lic-through their growing recognition of the ways of wisdom, of obligation,
of provident adjustment and of sagacious coiiperation-that
the thing will come. And if it does not so come, it will be solely that
the wisdom has been lacking to face fairly what the alternative will
mean. Now, as always in soci-al problems, the primary need is to
understand.

The first task, then, of political and economic sagacity I take to be
the retirement of these debts-through the assertion of the claim to
all further emerging increments upon the social estates, through income
and inheritance taxes, through severely high excises on middlemen
activities, and even, if need were, as in Europe need actually is,
through capital levies. If we allow the evils resulting from the war to
run on, unmitigated, the consequences in social unrest, in lowered labor
morale, in extravagant and destructive radicalism, in riot and, it may
be, in attempted revolution, will cost us-and will cost all of usvastly
more than a courageous and even heroic settlement of our problems
now with the means at hand. Always and everywhere it is for each
present generation to protect rather than to impair the resources of
the coming generations and to foster rather than to mar their liberties.
 ## Economics-1922-0


### ---Economics-1922-0-01.txt---
The historian of another age is likely to appraise our own day as
d;sturbed in thought, no less than restless in action. The shock of
the Great War brought mental bewilderment with dislocated affairs.
Accepted creeds were challenged as smug conventions, and primary
faiths-wrenched from traditional security-groped for firm stands.
Theology, politics, philosophy, economics, felt this upheaval. Like
Serapion, the pious believer lamented the old anchorage and cried for
a new god.

It was the basic social concept-the trend of human affairs-that
suffered most. Seven years ago the doctrine of progress might have
been fairly described as a scientific verity. Barring the pessimism of
a philosophical cult, the receding postulates of Marxism and the occasional
rationalist crying in the wilderness, there was no formal dissent
from the principle of progressive betterment in human affairs. The
pendulum was to swing far. In 1919 a regius professor of history,
in the detachment of doctrinal review could declare:2 "The progress
of humanity belongs to the same order of ideas as Providence or personal
immortality. It is true or false, and like them it cannot be
proved either true or false. Belief in it is an act of faith."
From this frank agnosticism there developed two variants. The
one, an extreme rebound from implicit acceptance, was naturally
enlough sheer negation. Not progress but blind chance-even worse,
outright retrogression-is the order of social movement. A century
and a half ago, Adam Smith-as after him, the whole train of classical
economists through John Stuart Mill-had indeed fashioned the concept
of a retrograde as against a progressive or a stationary society.
But the blight was specific and remediable: "the sensible decay" of
"the revenue and stock of its inhabitants" making up "the funds
destined for the maintenance of labor."3 The older economics, any
more than the older philosophy, had no place for a necessitarian
doctrine of social decline.

War oave way to Reconstruction, and the menace of arms yielded


### ---Economics-1922-0-02.txt---
to the dislocation of peace. With the change, philosophical depression
was succeeded by historical retrospect. The sensible form became
a revival of the age-old concept of cyclical return. Less naive than the
Stoic's doctrine of periodic destructions and rebirths, more complex
than Vico's principle of reflux, less mystic than Nietzsche's vision of
eternal recurrence-the essence of this new creed is that the course
of human affairs follows not a trajectory but a spiral.
The composite origin of the doctrine appears in its two phases: the
spiral may be horizontal or vertical. The one, with ear-mark of reaction,
assumes a recurrent swing bringing man back again and again
to the point from which he started; the other, still linked with the
old optimism, pictures a spiral ascent, wherein "each stage of an
upward progress corresponds in certain general aspects to a stage
which has already been traversed."4 Both are insistent that normal
forces working in essentially like settings beget similar phenomena.
Color and warmth have been lent to this "neo-spiralism" by historic
parallel. In particular, the accompaniments and sequels of the other
4"great war" of a hundred years ago disclose resemblances so startling
that a recent investigator observes: "A student conversant with the
earlier period often has an uncanny feeling of having previously lived
through current events."5 In currency disorders, in price fluctuations,
in industrial disputes, in agricultural unrest, in trade depression, in
social reaction-this likeness appears: "Everything goes, everything
returns, eternally does the wheel of being roll."6
The parallelism in economic facts has been at least partially explored;
but the likeness in economic thought has received little attention.
Invoking the principle of historical relativity, an exhibit of
resemblance might be expected. Opinion is an interpretation of life.
Given corresponding conditions, like doctrines may be anticipateddiffering
only as the personal equation shades the image or as new
instruments of precision render it more exact.

The role of the political economist in the Napoleonic contest and its
aftermath was not influential, certainly not distinguished. Adam
Smith's death three years before the outbreak of hostilities had made
"4less impression than the death of a bustling divine." The public regarded
the Theory of Moral Sentiments as "a far superior work" to
the Wealth of Nations, and calmly accepted the latter as "a sensible
book."7


### ---Economics-1922-0-03.txt---
A decade before, indeed, tradition has it that Pitt had come under
Smith's influence, and thereafter "always confessed himself as one of
Smith's most convinced disciples."' Mr. Rae has written of the young
statesman "reforming the national finances with the Wealth of Nations
in his hand," and Buckle long ago cited Pulteney's appeal to "the
authority of Dr. Smith who, it was well said, would persuade the
present generation, and govern the next."' But recent studies have
tended to qualify this wholesale ascription. Rose insists that the influence
of Adam Smith upon Pitt has been exaggerated ;" Rees maintains
that even in his administrative reforms Pitt was influenced "less
by Adam Smith than by the Committee of Public Accounts (of 1785),""
and Kennedy, contesting the view that the Wealth of Nations brought
to the world a new revelation of the principles of taxation, declares
bluntly that Smith merely "gave a wide intellectual sanction to a set
of opinions already very influential" and that "all the large changes
(in taxation) since his day.... have been made independently, or in
spite of the influence of his ideas."'"

Certainly, with the alarms of war, economic philosophy yielded to
economic opportunism. From 1793 on, through Pitt's death in 1806,
up to the end of the great struggle, the impress of Adam Smithwhatever
it mav have been-was felt in the world of thought, not in
the domain of affairs.

Adam Smith's mantle descended upon Dugald Stewart. But with it
came no direct access of practical influence. Reaction, born of the
Terror, was in the air; and, discriminating critic and eloquent expositor
though he might be, Stewart was not temperamentally of the
stuff of academic martyrs. "I have been so uniformly impressed with
a sense of the importance of my situation" (as professor of moral
philosophy at Edinburgh)-he wrote in apologetic reply to Lord
Abercromby's alarm-"that among all the interesting questions which
have, during the last nine years, divided our political parties, I have
never introduced the slightest reference to any of them excepting in
the single instance of the African trade, on which I formerly expressed
myself with some warmth ;-and even these expressions I dropped from
my course, as soon as it became matter of public discussion.,',
Apart from Adam Smith and Dugald Stewart we search vainly in the
period before 1800 for any considerable influence of economic opinion


### ---Economics-1922-0-04.txt---
upon public policies. Massie, never widely read, had long since been
forgotten. Hume's Political Discourses had, a generation before, entered
into the general equipment of the publicist and become mere
common sense. Sir James Stewart's stately volumes gathered dust
on the shelves. Godwin's Political Justice-destined to exercise a profound
impress upon a succeeding generation-was accorded the neglect
which Pitt observed could be safely imputed a work that sold
for three guineas. Bentham, writing from the first-in Dumont's
phrase "never as the historian but alwavs as the legislator,"-had
shown his mettle, but hardly more. The Essay on the Principle of
Population, two years after its publication, was still a sacrilegious
lampoon for which its anonymous author, one Rev. Thomas Robert
Malthus, should have been unfrocked.

There was, as there had been for a century earlier, a succession of
economic compositions-some not without practical result. Young,
Sinclair and Anderson made themselves felt in agricultural policies.
Eden contributed to clearer thinking as to social conditions. Richard
Price could point to the sinking fund with something akin to proprietary
interest. Yet the first decade of the Napoleonic struggle ended
with the economist, as such, neither prominent nor important.
The turn came in the second half of the war with the increasing
acuteness of economic disorders and the greater interest in economic
study. The Bank Restriction of 1798 and the ensuing derangement
of the exchanges brought forth a flood of pamphlets in polemic criticism
and defense, culminating in the Bullion Report and in Ricardo's
definitive tracts. The price of corn fluctuated wildly with the interruptions
of war-intensifying crop variations-and an 'inquiry into
the causes and remedies of the late and present scarcity and high price
of provisions" became a literary habit. Pitt's fiscal necessities and the
reluctant adoption of the income tax in 1799 precipitated a controversial
war. Malthus took formal place as the best abused man of his
day. The Berlin and Milan decrees revived, in new phase, an old
discussion as to commerce and national well-being. The sinking fund
was alternately magnified as a fiscal panacea and reviled as a national
calamitv.

Substantial as was this body of economic writing it lacked continuity
and integration. Like the currency debate of the seventeenth
century and the trade controversy of the eighteenth, pre-Ricardian
literature of the nineteenth century figures, with bare exceptions, as the
output of tract-writers and pamphleteers.

The saving elements were the concurrent growth of scientific consciousness
and the vogue of economic study-tendencies associated
with the name of Dugald Stewart. Unimportant in doctrinal contribution,


### ---Economics-1922-0-05.txt---
negligible in practical influence, the notable service of Stewart
was in preserving the concept of economic science and in transmitting
an ardent enthusiasm for its pursuit.

The small groups who from 1799 on gathered at Edinburgh in
attendance upon his "separate course"-James Mill, J. R. McCulloch,
Thomas Chalmers, the Earl of Lauderdale, Henry Brougham, Francis
Horner, Francis Jeffrey, Macvey Napier, Sydney Smith, Archibald
Alison-were the men who contributed most as text-writers, as reviewers
and as journalists to the revival of economic study in England in the
decade then beginning.

But the largest product of Dugald Stewart's lecture room was the
prominence of economic criticism in the newly founded Edinburgh
Review. The project was from the first designed to effect practical
reform rather than to afford philosophical exercise. Undertaking to
oppose in politics, in economics, and in jurisprudence that "timorous
acquiescence in the actual system," which Walter Bagehot calls a habit
of the early nineteenth century, the Review became something more
than "the doctrinal organ of the whigs." In the field of economic
relations, its editors attempted nothing less than the formation and
spread of a sound public opinion. Issue after issue appearing with
essay-like critiques from Francis Horner, Richard Jeffrey, Sydney
Smith, Henry Brougham-a little later Malthus, James Mill, and
McCulloch-the Review became the rostrum from which olympian
judgment, sometimes biased, often truculent but rarely incompetent,
appraised the economic writings and happenings of the period.
From the new consciousness proceeded scientific dignity and popular
interest. Adam Smith had used the term the "science" of political
economy and in the next generation, thanks to Stewart's teaching and
Say's writing, the phrase had come into easy use. But from 1810
on it acquired meaning and force. The fourth edition of the Encyclopaedia
Britannica in that very year carried an expository article on
"Political Economy." A coterie gathered about Ricardo's breakfast
table, and personal regard cemented intellectual sympathy. Doctrinal
controversies were initiated and conducted with spirit-a remarkable
exhibit of this activity, the long missing and much desired manuscript
of Ricardo's Notes on Malthus having happily been recovered during
the past summer and being now in process of publication.1"
Academic recognition, anticipated in Malthus' appointment at
Haileybury in 1807, was more fully accorded by Pryme's lectureship at
Cambridge in 1816 "to facilitate the study of a science hitherto inaccessible
without the most arduous perseverance," even though subject to
the condition, indeed, that the lectures be not given at an earlier hour


### ---Economics-1922-0-06.txt---
than twelve o'clock, lest they should interfere with other fixtures.15
Finally, in 1821, the Political Economy Club-to whose honored centenary
this Association within the last month has sent its message of
congratulation-was organized nominally to support the Merchants'
Free Trade Petition of 1820, but really, as its first resolutions set
forth, to effect the formation of a society for promoting the knowledge
of political economy. l

The counterpart of scientific consciousness was popular vogue. In
1811, Boileau compiled his Introduction to the Study of Political
Economy "particularly for those to whom rank or fortune hold out
the noble prospect of being one day called to legislate for their fellowsubjects.
"'7 At the other extreme Mrs. Marcet, a few years later, presented
her Conversations in Political Economy-destined to run
through many editions-in order to bring the science within the reach
of any "intelligent young person, fluctuating between the impulse of
her heart and the progress of her reason, and naturally imbued with
all the prejudices and popular feelings of uninformed benevolence."18
Maria Edgeworth recorded in 1823 that political economy was
displacing the ordinary disciplines as the necessary equipment of
nursery governesses and that "it had become high fashion with blue
ladies to make a great jabbering on the subject."19 In 1823 McCulloch
trumpeted: "The time cannot be far distant when a knowledge, or at
least some little attention to, Political Economy will be considered as
necessary for a legislator as a knowledge of Greek"-in itself no mean
exhibit of the economist's spiral.20 And almost at the same time an
anonymous author presented "to the enlightened ideas, and acute perception
of the American people" A Treatise of Political Economy.....
in the form of a Romaunt, for the more pleasing accommodation of
readers; wherein the subject "presumed to be considered upon strict
philosophical, mathematical, and geometrical principles" is explained
in a series of letters to Aristippus from Aristander, "perceived in a deep
vision."'

The reflex of scientific pursuit and popular favor was practical
effect. In the five years that followed Waterloo-roughly, the period
of post-bellum reconstruction-political economy exercised a practical
influence never before equalled. In every phase of the nation's life
there was enactment or repeal in accord with "the verdict of the econAAutobiographic
Recollections of George Pryme (1870), p. 121.


### ---Economics-1922-0-07.txt---
omiists"-sometimes even in vindication of rejected advocacies. The
income tax which in 1798 Pitt had imposed and in 1803 reimposed
was in 1816 repealed and the very assessment records burned. The
sinking fund after two decades of financial legerdemain was reconsidered
in 1819 and reconstituted in 1823. The House of Coinmons
in 1811 solemnly recorded its dissent from the conclusions of the
Bullion Report, only with equal solemnity in 1819 to reverse its action.
Tooke's draft of the Merchants' Petition, favorably received by Lord
Liverpool's government in 1820, established the political rallying point
for "the principles of a Free Trade policy" which a generation before
Adam Smith had regarded "as absurd as to expect that an Oceana or
Utopia should ever be established" in Great Britain.
How from this high estate, political economy in the next decade fell
to disregard and neglect is a familiar but painful chapter in the history
of our science. Inquiry gave way to dogmatism and analysis was
displaced by disputation. Intellectual independence was sapped and
scientific doctrine degenerated into barren dialectics, even into class
advocacy. Cobbett, Place, Owen and the sturdy group lately come
into its own as the "English Socialist School"-exposed "the inherent
defects and injustice of the existing system." Mallet could write of
accuracy and minuteness of definition as part of "the coxcombry of
the Political Economists". . . .continuing thereafter, in Elia's phrases,
"their minds are never caught in undress or by glimpses; their stocks
of ideas are in perfect order and completeness. You cannot cry halves
to anything they find. Between the affirmative and negative there is
no border land with them. Their conversation is a book."22
It was before this august company that McCulloch could assert
"that there could not be a farthing more capital in the country if the
national debt had not been incurred" 23 that Tooke could propose "tea
as a perfect object of taxation, because it would hardly be considered
as a necessary of life, and the quantity required by each individual is so
small";24 that Senior could maintain in opposition to the Factory bill
of 1837 that the profits of the operators accrued only in the final hour,
and that "the Factory bill was altogether mischievous.,25
The influence extended beyond "The Caledonians." In 1833 Harriet
Martineau assured early Victorianism that "The case of those wretched
factory children seems desperate; the only hope seems to be that the
race will die in two or three generations, by which time machinery may


### ---Economics-1922-0-08.txt---
be found to do their work better than their miserable selves."26 And
James Stirling-one of "the popular advisers of the middle class"-
writing a little later but reflecting a like spirit, could look forward
to a time when "the fanatical faith of the working classes in the
artificial mechanism of combination will give place to trust in the wiser,
because more natural, system of individual competition; and the hiring
of labor, like the exchange of commodities, will be set free, to be regulated
by the Heaven-ordained laws of Supply and Demand."2"
II

Let us turn from this century-old story to consider the role of the
economist-of the American economist-in our own Great War, and in
its aftermath. The first fact to arrest attention is the deeper consciousness,
the more articulate form, the larger recruitment of the science.
In 1917 political economy in the United States could fairly rank with
any of its sister sciences in the definiteness of its aim, in the detail of
its exposition, in the range of its influence, in the ardor of its devotees.
In outright numbers and in relative competence the fraternity had
made notable advance. Compactly organized in scientific association,
supplied as to assembled material and equipped as to technical journals,
animated with high sense of public responsibility, established in
academic office with large student groups affording apprentices and
offering discipleship-the economist had come to fill a distinctive place
in the nation's life. Increasing requisition by public service and sensational
bidding-up by private enterprise had so far dissipated the old
seclusion that prospective scientific impoverishment rather than present
public neglect constituted his concern. Witlh the greater specialization
of social effort nation, state, and city were utilizing the economist'
s counsel and enlisting his personnel. In Washington this was
physically mnanifest. The Cosmos Club, like Piccadilly Circus, was
the point at which one might stand and see his world pass.
The permanent Census Office, the reconstituted Department of
Labor, the rehabilitated Tariff Commission, the enlarged Department
of Commerce, the reorganized Federal Trade Commssion, the expanding
Department of Agriculture were so many stages in the economist's
progress. Not always as expertly staffed as might be, hampered often
by political exigency, they reflected a widening infiltration. There
were positive triumphs too. Workmen's compensation had become a


### ---Economics-1922-0-09.txt---
part of our industrial scheme. Mediation and arbitration were finding
use in systematized form. Collective bargaining, at least as a phrase,
had entered into business terminology. The income tax had been incorporated
into the national revenue system. The theory of monopoly
price was definitely accepted as to the regulation of non-competitive
industry. The Federal Reserve act had repaired the glaring defects
in our banking organization. The Federal Farm Loan project gave
assurance that agricultural credit was to become available.
At our entry into the war the opportunity would thus seein to have
been present for the exercise of a large influence upon affairs. The
course of the struggle had made it evident that eventually the race
must be to the economically strongest; and the experiences of the
belligerents had shown the penalty of economic bungling.
In the physical sciences there was swift mobilization and quick tender
and ready acceptance of scientific guidance. As to the economists
there is a different story. There had been no preparedness in the three
fateful years that preceded our entry into the World War, and there
was no collective proffer after we had entered. Even more, there was
at the outset no instinctive recourse to the economist on the part of
public authority, and but slow and half-hearted requisition of his
services thereafter.

The results were twofold-both unfortunate. On the one hand,
failing systematic mobilization, a wasteful individualism prevailed.
The Ainerican economist either ate his soul out in enforced inactivity;
or, the situation becoming intolerable, accepted subordinate, often
clerical position, rather than do nothing at all. And on the other
hand, his proper role was taken over in part by a group of transmuted
men of affairs; in part by a corps of business technicians, distinguished
from the economic investigator by the more austere title "statistician."
Of the whole company of American economists, including all of those
whose names we delight to honor, not a single figure was in the first
instance chosen or was thereafter permitted to exercise formative,
determining influence in the economic conduct of the war. Services
of great usefulness, of high importance, were rendered by almost every
member of our body, and I shlould fail lamentably in my purpose did I
seem to be insensible of this. But nowhere and at no time was the
opportunity afforded to shape and direct. And on the other hand, in
instance after instance, constructive discretion and responsible leadership
were vested in men whose excellencies, high as the heavens, were
yet marked by absence of those qualities which we insist distinguish the
scientifically equipped economist.

This is no light statement. But it has not been hastily conceived
nor recklessly phrased. Over and above the great company of those


### ---Economics-1922-0-10.txt---
usefully, but administratively, engaged-one, two, perhaps three names
come to mind as of economists who by circumstance or designation
may seem to have been permitted to exercise what I have ventured to
call formative influence. But closer scrutiny will establish even as to
these, that the notable service which each in his respective field was
able to render was not because but in spite of the range of discretionary
power.

This dispossession of the economist would have resolved itself into a
mere slighting of sensibilities, had it been justified of the result. But
the exhibit here is unmistakable. If we refuse to be flattened out by
the "we won the war" argument, garnished with its "hells" and
"damns," and survive the more subtle "it was necessary under the
circumstances" fallacy, with its aura of officialdom, the unpleasing
fact stands forth that the history of the war discloses a series of
costly economic errors that expert guidance should have avoided.
The four great areas of economic intervention in our war activities
were:

1. Labor adjustment.

2. Price-fixing.

3. Revenue provision.

4. Banking administration.

In each of these, government practice was shaped- ither by deliberate
policy or opportunist drift-independent, even in disregard of the
economist's opinion. In the execution of such practices the economist
was utilized and his influence was exercised. But the formative policy
was elsewhere initiated and the controlling guidance was elsewhere
lodged.

The particulars may be briefly reviewed:

1. The history of labor adjustment in the war is a complex of
opportunist adaptation of a peace-time mechanism, imperfectly comprehended,
to a war-time requirement, inadequately visualized the
whole shot with a premature idealism.

In 1917 the labor world was still the least well-understood part, in
structure and function, of our economic organization. The simpler
magnitudes-distribution, unionization, wage levels, were imperfectly
enumerated, and the deeper elements-the interaction of workers as to
unionism, localities, and trades-were not even apprehended. Where
the expert would have trodden cautiously, the amateur rushed in unhesitatingly.
There resulted a series of wasteful ventures, out of
which the bare concept of a solution-a common labor policy in all
war industry-did not emerge until the war was half over and the
actual realization of which was still unattained when the war was over.
Just as the problem of labor distribution was met with an uninformed


### ---Economics-1922-0-11.txt---
empiricism, so the problem of labor remuneration was approached
with a premature idealism. From insistence that the outbreak
of war must not serve as a pretext to sweep away accredited
industrial defences, to endeavor that the exigencies of war be used to
elevate wage levels to an imperfectly ascertained, inexpertly administered
standard of comfort-this is a far cry, the sharp echoes of which
were certain to ring in the nation's ears long after the event.
2. Price-fixing has been recently described as "one of the most
important economic novelties that resulted from the war."28 It was
novel not in the sense of a new and untried device: but rather,
in that it jettisoned accredited economic opinion. No rubric in our
creed seemed more secure, none more safely an induction from historical
experience, nor more firmly buttressed upon primary economic axioms
than the unwisdom of a legal price maximum.

An appeal to doctrinal authority is no sufficient logic in the political
economy of war. Inter arma silent leges may be invoked as to opinion
as well as to affairs-when the nation's existence is in the balance.
A distinguished leader in the financial world has defended a somewhat
like election in an epigram: "It was patriotism that for the time
being displaced or disregarded economic laws or principles."'
Obviously, we have to do here with the fineness of our scientific texture.
Even patriotism may not flout the conservation of energy or the
combustion of gases or bacterial incubation. Certainly economic uniformities,
even the best of them, are not as the corner-stones of physics,
chemistry and biology. But before propulsion into the outer darkness
they are, at least, entitled to a day in court with counsel for the
defense from their own exponents. And this as to the adoptionadoption,
remember, not operation-of the policy of price-fixing was
denied the economist.

A competent participant, judicial but sympathetic, has said in review:
"Government price-fixing during the war was not uniform in
its objects, and was little guided by principles or deliberate policies.
In the main, it was opportunist, feeling its way from case to case."30
This concerns a later matter, into which-tempting as is the invitation
-it is not permitted to enter. But however faint the praise as to
practice, incomparably less even than this may be said as to the spirit
of entry. There were definite ends to be attained: the protection of
the public in fuel and food; the protection of the government in essential


### ---Economics-1922-0-12.txt---
materials. To these ends there were alternative means: administrative
bargaining on patriotic basis; commandeering, potential or
actual; non-inflationary financing; licensing of fuel supply; control
of transport facilities; appropriation of war profits. It is by no
means clear that the objects in view would have been better servedeven
as well served-by any or all of these methods as by direct pricefixing.
But a statement to the contrary is quite as unwarranted. Until
there has been a fuller inquest-attended by more than ordinary difficulties-
in which will be weighed the consequences of what was done,
compared with the possible results of what might have been donethe
final verdict must be withheld.

That, however, which is certain, is that the determination of policyor,
if a less conscious procedure be emphasized, the initial step-in
essence, a radical departure from accepted economic opinion and practice-
was taken deliberately, almost leisurely, without either that expert
canvass of the problem or that consultative regard for scientific
opinion which even in war time is the requisite of administrative
efficiency.

3. The nation approached its war financing with the fairest prospect
of actual practice conforming to sound theory. The necessity
of revenue provision on a vast scale had been admitted; the policy of a
relatively large ratio of taxes to loans had been adopted; the danger
of "the very serious hardship which would be likely to arise out of
inflation" had been set forth in a presidential utterance; expert counsel
had been summoned in the preparation of the tax schedule.
Definite adherence to this program would have meant sound war
financing. But at an early stage the straight hard road of taxation
and funding was left for the treacherous ease of "finance by bank
credits." Thereafter our war financing had primary regard for fiscal
convenience and business advantage to the neglect of general wellbeing.
To supply the exchequer readilv and painlessly with ample
funds, bank credit was utilized in the form of certificate borrowingwith
the consequences of deposit and note inflation, rising prices and
social injustice.

A careful student of "the political economy of war" has pointed
out that "finance by bank credits"-"inherently bad" and to be restricted
"within the narrowest possible limits," though it be-is likely
to be resorted to even by strong governments at war, because of "the
fear of popular resentment against high taxation in an overt form"
and "the fear that an offer of very high interest upon loans might
make upon neutrals an impression of financial weakness."'32


### ---Economics-1922-0-13.txt---
Neither of these factors was present in our experience to a degree
sufficient to justify resort to bank credit financing. The possible attitude
of neutrals did not even figure; while public disposition towards
increased tax burdens was grim acceptance, tinctured with nothing
worse than that degree of grumbling which in matters of taxation is
the mark of a decent self-respect. In so far as our necessary resort
to inflation financing can be explained at all, it is traceable to that
"borrow cheap" policy, born of false analogy, fiscal absolutism and
neglect of expert opinion, which in the Civil War lashed us with fiat
currency, and in this war scourged us with fiat credit.
The amazing feature of this process is the completeness with which
it remained unavowed by its sponsors and undiscerned by the public.
The certificate of indebtedness which in the seven weeks interval between
the Revenue act of March 3, and the First Liberty Loan act of April
24, 1917, passed from its traditional role as a short-time investment
obligation issued in anticipation of the proceeds of a funded loan
designed to meet extraordinary expenditure, to an habitual device for
the extension of bank credit in the form of government deposits by subscribing
financial institutions, continued to be officially described as a
mere convenient mode of avoiding monetary strain, with never an intimation
of wider significance."

The device of permissive "payment by credit," worked out we are
told,34 in connection with the First Liberty Loan at a Sunday conference
in May, 1917, between representatives of the Treasury, of the Federal
Reserve Board and of the New York Liberty Loan Committee, was
extended to certificate borrowing as a whole, with consequences of the
utmost gravity, almost by administrative tolerance.
There was no intimation that in essence a new borrowing policy had
been inaugurated, with neither specific authorization nor general comprehension;
that the certificate of indebtedness had been transformed
into the British Treasury Bill on Ways and Means Advance, unknown
and untried in our experience, and that by its lavish use we were heading
straight for the evils which the Cunliffe Commission a year before
had explored and made public, as brilliantly as its great predecessor
the Bullion Committee had done a century earlier as to a related
problem."


### ---Economics-1922-0-14.txt---
An advocate of our war financing has written of such development
as "tendencies of which the Treasury officials themselves were probably
only dimly aware.""a Ricardo, to a like plea in extenuation, reviewing
the entrenched stolidity of the directors of the Bank of England during
the first decade of the Restriction, made ringing answer: "I do, therefore,
acquit them of being influenced by interested motives but their
mistakes, if they are such, are in their effects quite as pernicious to the
community."37

4. Beginning with the flotation of war loans at an artificially low
rate, the Treasury was driven to support the "borrow cheap" policy
both as to the bond buying and certificate issue by insuring a low
preferential discount rate at the federal reserve banks. Made'possible
by political domination of an essentially non-political institution, this
misuse of the federal reserve system as the handmaiden of the Treasury
was attended with severe penalties.

There was injected into the exchange mechanism of the country a
great body of deposit and note currency entirely unrelated to commercial
needs and serving fiscal rather than monetary purposes. With
inflation came gross depreciation in the monetary standard and distress-
causing rise in living costs. Higher prices of materials and services
added to the cost of war and weighted its overhang. Excessive
gains were reaped, unrelated to valid enterprise. Undeserved losses
were suffered by the depreciation of public loans. Worst of all, cheapened
credit stimulated extensive speculation, with still further rise in
prices and capital shortage.38

instrument of inflation and the funded debt is not." As practical a financier as
Mr. Warburg must however recognize that the question in issue is not as to hypothetical
possibility but as to the positive occurrence. That certificate borrowing at an
artifically low rate "by credit," and therefore of necessity from the banks, was
responsible, during the war and more particularly after the armistice, for a vastly
greater degree of inflation than would have attended funding operations, at rates
dictated by the market valuation of capital and in forms designed for investment
absorption-is, I fear, a conclusion which the inquiries of the Cunliffe Commission,
the penetrating analyses of Professor Pigou, and a mass of evidence in England and
the United States, remove from further controversy.
As to Mr. Warburg's statements that our borrowing machinery was "the best
that could have been devised" and that "no other way was open to pay for the war"
-valuable as are such opinions coming from one "right in the midst of it"-I can
only anticipate the views developed below, that scientific verity and not assumed
expediency is the ultimate standard by which fiscal policy even in war-time, must
be appraised.

-aE. L. Bogart, in Political Science Quarterly, March, 1920, p. 160.


### ---Economics-1922-0-15.txt---
The Federal Reserve Board, shorn of its essential power to control
expansion at a critical stage, thus became an impotent witness to an
orgy of credit and currency inflation, which the belated resort to
higher discount rates-literally compelled by the imminence of a
threatened gold standard-was able to correct only through the wastes
and losses of an imperative deflation.

Free supply of bank credit in connection with our borrowing in the
period of belligerency may perhaps be explained-though not justified
-by the exigencies of war. But not even this plea is admissible to the
resumption of such policies after the Armistice and the continued
maintenance of artifically low discount rates. Designed originally to
facilitate tiae anticipation of war loans and taxes, the preferential discount
rate operated during the war as an instrumentality for "financing
by bank credit." After the war, it degenerated into a device for
salvaging the "borrow cheap" entanglement and for masking the existence
and staving off the maturity of a huge floating debt.
The procedure of credit issues to balance current budgets, so violently
reprobated in the case of European states, continued in essence our
practice during the post-Armstice months. Instead of using both fiat
currency and fiat credit we restricted ourselves to the more insidious
form. The demoralizing effect of the two methods upon the social
structure has differed only in degree.

III

In the security of retrospect it is tempting to indulge in counsel of
perfection. The din has quieted, the fever subsided and practices for
which precedent was lacking and occasion was imperative are likely
to be estimated in the wisdom of hindsight. John Bright declared of
his opponents: "They always have been wrong; they always will be
wrong and when they cease to be wrong they will cease to be the Tory
party."3" It is right to guard against this-to forego outright
stricture and to temper absolute valuation by relative allowance. But
withal there must be just weight and measure. It would be reckless to
assert that the intricate problems of our war economy would have been
fully served or properly solved by the scientist in responsible control.
The economist will not wish to be charged with Canning's criticism of
Lord Sidmouth: "Carrying into politics the indefinable air of a
physician inspecting the tongue of the state."40 There is always the
rare statesman like Peel who "in three cases out of four knew a thing
just in time, after it was known to the philosophers, before it was


### ---Economics-1922-0-16.txt---
known to the empirics."' But it remains certain that the economist's
grasp of the immediate subject-matter, his acquaintance with comparable
experience, his mental habit in social valuation give him distinctive
equipment for the formative service which was denied him.
Divested of the opportunity to shape economic policies-partly
through his own inertia, partly through political neglect-the role
of the political economist becomes that of a constructive critic. Resolute
against the negative quibbling of the embittered faultfinder,
watchful against the soporific emanations of the throne his mission
must be fearless, unequivocal assertion of the verities of his science, as
against the prejudice of the moment, the pressure of class interest, or
the quietism of office.

He must seek, increasingly, to lay bare the mistakes that have been
made and impute them to the proper source, whether of practices or of
persons-this in no vindictive sense but in order that there may be a
strict assignment of responsibility, to the end of abandoning unsound
practices, of devising appropriate remedial measures and of avoiding
like pitfalls in the future.

The finest traditions of his past enjoin this: It is the call of Adam
Smith, inveighing in behalf of freedom of trade against "the clamorous
importunity of partial interests." It is the summons of Malthus
denouncing the poor laws of England as a set "of grating, inconvenient
and tyrannical laws." It is the insistence of Ricardo, protesting
against the misuse of the sinking fund. It is the acridity of John
Stuart Mill, in condemnation of the inflationist proposals of the Birmingham
currency school.

In this sense, the restraint of the American economist in the war
period is not exhilarating: a record of substantial practical service
in many directions, rendered with fidelity, devotion and efficiency, but
service essentially contributory and acquiescent. Of that resolute
intractibility against scientific error, uncompromising and outspoken,
which must distinguish the economist as sentinel and critic-there is
in the period of actual belligerency little evidence.
This involves no charge of intellectual cowardice.42 In the cynicism
of world collapse, George Brandes has lately revived an epigram imputed
to Frederick the Great: "I begin by taking. Then I always
find men of science to prove the justice of my claim." The possibility
is peculiar neither to time nor place. There is danger of scholarship
becoming official in a democracy no less than in an absolutism. Public
passion cracks as sharp a whip as any despot, and the applause of the


### ---Economics-1922-0-17.txt---
market-place is as grave a menace to independent thought as the favor
of the throne.

Of these things the American economist stands absolved. Less clear
is the extent to which he held resolute for scientific verity as against
practical compromise. "The function of science is to expose the naked
facts," a recent scholar has declared. "It is for politicians to decide
how to resist developments which are judged to be economically undesirable.
"43 In the economics of war, governmental policy is beset by
two opposed forces. On the one hand is opportunism and practicability:
opportunism in using the stress of war need to accomplish
ends in doubt; practicability in meeting the war strain with least
trouble and resistance. On the other hand is scientific proof and
economic law, rugged and dure, straight and narrow, serving the public
need with measures conceived solely with respect to the social calculus,
and hewing to this line even with struggle in making and difficulty in
carrying out.

Something of our opportunity here was surrendered by prematurity
of pronouncement; something was frittered away by indulgence in
insecure dicta. In the main, however, it is true that the war-time
reserve of the economist proceeded from that ready assent to the
policy and practices of authority which, in time of great national peril,
is the instinct of democracy. At a time when "public opinion could
largely be disregarded because public assent could be assumed," the
economist as alert scientist was submerged in the economist as docile
citizen.

For the post-Armistice period there is a different story to tell. The
war won, the economist regained his poise. Realizing that the doctrine
of practical necessity can do yeoman service in defense of unsound
war-time policies, but that it may not be as securely invoked in the
calmer years that follow; supplied with data before lacking or inaccessible-
he became vigilant and articulate.

Analysis established the clear fact that the United States had
financed the war and its aftermath largely by reliance upon banik credit.
Inflation, theretofore "a high-brow fancy of the professors"-to be
tolerantly ignored by the public, to be summarily dismissed by men
of affairs, and to be held forth bogey-fashion as a warning against
non-adoption of official policies-was exposed as an avoidable evil of
our post-war economy, contributing to high prices, business profiteering,
speculative excesses and social disquiet. The Federal Reserve
Board's belated recourse to higher discount rates in correction of an
overextended credit structure was indicted. The naive assumption of
industrial underproduction-dearly beloved of financial column writers


### ---Economics-1922-0-18.txt---
-was cut ofl in its prime by definitive statistical exhibit. The obscurities
of the Pittman Silver Purchase act were illumined and the consequences,
actual and prospective, of that remarkable measure exposed.
The importance of prompt return to normal distributive
methods and ordinary price mechanism was emphasized-in face of
strong resistanice. The penalties of emotionalism in governmental
labor policies were made clear, and, at the same time, bar put to the
exploitation of trade depression in behalf of anti-unionism. Emphatic
as to the error of retaining blunderbuss war taxes in a peace-time
economy, there was insistence that the ideals of fiscal justice- confused
by the shrill chorus of the market place, even shaken by uncertain tones
from our own spokesmen-must determine the nation's revenue system.
In short, the economist has filed formal caveat against recourse to
the argument of assumed expediency and momentary opportunism in
defense of war policies which are theoretically vulnerable. He has
insisted that expediency is a subjective and relative term, which one
man regards as such and another will deny, and that as soon as we
leave the safe moorings of that which is scientifically sound-we are
adrift. He recalls that Secretary Chase doubtless deemed the greenback
unsound "in theory," but justified it as a practical expedient.
So too Mr. Bryan's silver proposals and a hundred dangerous ventures
with which we have from time to time been tempted. His position is,
in a word, that for an administrator to engage in a theoretically
unsound practice and to defend it on the score of practical necessity
reduces the matter to a rigid calculus, as to which-until the final outcome
-official opinion is worth as much, but only as much, as that
emanating from any other equally competent quarter.
IV

The economist's task is far from done; but it enters upon a new
phase. In the political economy of war, as of peace, time holds the
bank. Whatever the lapse, in the end truth comes into its own. Too
late to change the outcome, all the more is the true prophet acclaimed.
The clear errors, even the hard reactions of mistaken war and post-war
policies have begun to appear. Much more, perhaps, awaits. With
the disclosure must come-unless all signs fail-a wider interest in
economic study, a tremendous gain in the scientist's repute. The
prophet as seer may be without honor; but not the prophet as victor.
The market place, smarting in its hurt, is quick to magnify the virtue
of him whose neglected counsel, it comes to appear, might have softened,
perhaps warded off, the blow.

More than once, economic experience has developed the inconvenient


### ---Economics-1922-0-19.txt---
habit of exalting the horn of "the professors," and of vindicating
scientific opinion as against economic opportunism. But this time the
issues have been larger, the alternatives sharper, the penalties costlier.
It will be surprising if the rebound is not greater.
Political economy reached its heyday in the decade following the
Napoleonic struggle. It did so because great economic and social
problems-the dislocation of world upheaval-pressed imperatively
for settlement upon a world disillusioned by bitter experience as to the
wisdom of its practical men, and expectant in the light of justified
forecast as to the reasoning of its economic thinkers. Public opinion
became sensible as never before that the principle of general
causation figured in the business of getting a living; that times
were bad not merely by chance; that high prices, falling exchanges,
agricultural distress, industrial unemployment, burdensome
taxes, resulted from the pursuit or from the neglect of positive policies;
that a group of inoffensive tractarians, then barely beginning to call
themselves "political economists," had given specialized study to such
matters and had time and again sounded warning note, and that therefore
it might be a prudent thing to learn what this was about and to
pay some greater regard to the spokesmen.

So, too, in the later aftermath of another cataclysm the world
stands, irresolute and hesitant perhaps, but none the less receptive
for economic counsel. The public mind is in scapegoat-making mood
-and the empiricist is its sin-offering. As false priests are expelled
from the temple, new ones will be installed. Tested as acolyte, the
economist awaits induction.

V

Uninfluential in formative policy, uncompromising as scientific protestant,
vindicated by outright event, to be acclaimed as guide and
prophet-the spiral holds. One final phase remains-relapse into
formalism. Will the parallelism obtain even here? Shall we be witnesses
to, even participants in, another classical political economywith
all the excesses that the term implies?

The answer turns upon the degree to which conscious purpose will
deflect the normal trend. If the economist, heady with larger place,
foregoes his birthright-the horoscope is cast. Larger practical influence,
wider popular interest, artificial rigidity of utterance, relapse
into paradox-like dicta, proneness to definite forecast, intentness upon
doctrinal vindication, dullness to new evidence these, as a century
before, will be the stages in his undoing. From class advocacy in its


### ---Economics-1922-0-20.txt---
vulgar sense he will be saved; from the more subtle contagion of postwar
reaction he will not be immune.

But this need not be so. If the economist, tutored by his past,
maintain his full scientific stature, toiling laboriously in the assembly
of data, formulating trial hypotheses with caution, abstaining religiously
from armchair theorizing, subjecting tentative uniformatives
to rigid verification, fearless in the knowledge that is power-he will
preserve his scientific vantage with widening range and profounder
impress. By the sheer virtue of his scholarship, will he prevail upon
affairs.
 ## Economics-1923-0


### ---Economics-1923-0-01.txt---
One of the most significant recent developments in the labor organization
field has been the multiplication of what are variously called
shop committees, works councils, or company unions. First established
in this country by the government labor boards to meet the war
emergency, shop committees might well have been expected to dwindle
and die after the boards creating them had been dissolved. Many of them
of course did so, but many more new committees have been organized.
According to the survey of the National Industrial Conference Board
the number of company unions or "works councils"2 in the United
States increased from two hundred and twenty-five in August, 1919,
to seven hundred and twenty-five in February, 1922. This was in spite
of the disappearance of fully one hundred of the councils which were
in existence when the war ended. To appreciate fully the significance
of this development we must contrast it with the course of trade unionism
in the same period. During the two years 1920 to 1922 the
affiliated membership of the American Federation of Labor decreased
by more than 800,000 or over twenty per cent.

It is my purpose to consider the advantages and disadvantages of
these two types of labor organizations, company unions and trade
unions, from the viewpoint of the public interest, the interest of the
employees and the interest of employers. Our experience with company
unions is so recent that any discussion of them must be in part speculative.
To make my treatment as definite as the nature of the problem
permits, I shall limit myself to this issue in relation to public service
industries. Conclusions reached in this narrow field will admittedly be
inapplicable or only partly applicable to competitive industries, but
at this stage of our progress intensive analysis should be more useful


### ---Economics-1923-0-02.txt---
than the formulation of far-reaching, which too often prove to be only
far-fetched, conclusions.

Public service industries may, for the purpose of this discussion, be
defined as industries whose continuous operation is vital to the public
interest. Such for illustration are local public utilities, as street railways
and steam railroads.

Because the continuous operation of these industries is of vital
public concern we are beginning to develop a special public policy
toward them designed to insure uninterrupted service. This has been
the obj ective of our gradually unfolding railroad labor policy. In
order to judge which form of labor organization is best adapted to
such industries, we must consider the direction in which this policy
is carrying us and its probable consequences.

It took Congress many years to realize that special measures to
insure the continuous operation of the railroads were needed. When
convinced that something should be done, its first thought, registered
in the Erdman act of 1898, was that mediation, conciliation and
voluntary arbitration would suffice to prevent railroad strikes, and
for a time they did suffice. The Newlands act of 1913 attempted to
save a situation that was becoming admittedly more and more precarious
by providing more elaborate machinery for mediation, conciliation,
and arbitration. Experience soon demonstrated that something
more than a change of machinery was needed. The Adamson
act of 1916 introduced, by a method and in a form that have been
generally condemned since,' the principle that certain basic standards
in the railroad industry-in this instance, the standard work dayshould
be determined by law. The Transportation act of 1920 further
developed this principle by prescribing that the wages and working
conditions to be established by the Railroad Labor Board, which it
created, should be just and reasonable as tested by the seven criteria
which it formulated. This act further made it the "duty" of the
railroads and their employees "to exert every reasonable effort and
adopt every available means to avoid any interruption" of the service,
but it stopped short of prescribing penalties for non-fulfilment of
this duty.

The recent shopmen's strike proved that Congress must do more to
prevent a tie-up of the railroads than formulate a new code of duties
for railroad men and managers. The conclusion of President Harding
as to what this more should be is significant. In his recent message


### ---Economics-1923-0-03.txt---
he advocates, in characteristically guarded language, that the functions
of the Railroad Labor Board be transferred to a labor division of an
enlarged interstate commerce commission, that its decisions be given
the force of law, and that railroad strikes be prohibited.
It was no accident that the same winter in which Congress passed
the Transportation act in face of the determined opposition of the
leaders of organized labor, Kansas, under the forceful guidance of
Governor Allen, adopted her Industrial Court law. This affords even
clearer evidence of the inevitable trend of governmental policy toward
labor controversies on public service industries. The Kansas act not
only creates a court with broad powers to regulate wages, hours, and
working conditions when in dispute in industries affected with a public
interest, but prescribes more clearly than the Transportation act what
standard of just and reasonable rates the court is to apply to wages
and working conditions, and prohibits with severe penalties strikes
or other concerted efforts to interrupt the continuous operation of
such industries.

It would be a bold prophet who would attempt to predict just what
developments in our governmental policy toward public service industries
lie immediately before us. In the see-saw of politics, President
Harding's recommendations may be disregarded and Governor Allen's
beloved Court may be abolished. But I venture the opinion that whatever
course the legislation of the immediate future may take, the logic
of the situation will as time goes on lead us to strengthen rather than
weaken the machinery for insuring continuous operation of public
service industries. This means the maintenance of an authoritative
board or court to determine labor conditions on the railroads and of
similar state boards or courts to determine conditions on street railways
and other local public service industries. It means the formulation
in statutes of the standards as regards wages and working conditions
that are to be required in connection with public service industries.
Finally it means prohibition with enforceable penalties (not imprisonment
4 but fines which pursue the offender until paid, as in New Zealand)


### ---Economics-1923-0-04.txt---
of strikes or other concerted efforts to interrupt the service. I base
this opinion on two grounds. In the first place the strike weapon in
these industries is beginning to be a boomerang. The very fact that
continuous operation of public service industries is vital to the public
interest insures in advance public condemnation of the group which
undertakes to interrupt such operation, however great the provocation.
For that reason the shopmen's strike of last summer was lost
before it was begun. The same circumstance foredooms a street railway
strike, under any but the most unusual conditions, to failure.
The managers of our railroads and street railway companies are
beginning to understand the situation. Few of them doubt their ability
to break, with the aid of indignant public opinion, any strike that
may be started provided the government prevents violence and intimidation
on the part of the strikers.

My second and stronger reason for believing that we shall persist
in the policies of adjusting labor conditions in public service industries
through boards or courts and prohibiting strikes is that we have
already pressed the policy of regulating rates and quality of service
so far that we cannot well avoid similarly regulating wages. Public
authority cannot long content itself with prescribing that "rates shall
be fair and reasonable" without also prescribing that costs, including
wages, shall be fair and reasonable.

The background against which we must consider the advantages and
disadvantages of company unions versus trade unions in public service
industries is then a situation in which the strike is already a discredited
and is rapidly becoming a futile weapon, in which boards and courts
are being established and strengthened to adjudicate labor disputes,
in which definite standards as to hours, wages, and working conditions
are being crystallized into law, and in which to an increasing extent
the law will also prohibit and punish combined action aiming at
interruption of the operation of these industries.5
We are now ready to ask what are the tests of a desirable form of
labor organization from the viewpoint of the public, of the employees
concerned and of the employers. From the viewpoint of the public the
ends to be advanced are continuous operation, economy and efficiency
in operation and the development of more intelligent, more capable and


### ---Economics-1923-0-05.txt---
more public-spirited workers and citizens. From the viewpoint of
employees economy and efficiency in operation and the development of
a higher type of worker must be stressed, but even more important
are liberal compensation, moderate hours, safe and sanitary working
conditions and the fullest participation by the workers in the determination
of their working conditions that is compatible with economy and
efficiency. Finally from the viewpoint of employers the desiderata
are continuous operation, maximum economy and efficiency, low labor
costs, and ready acceptance by the employees of changes deemed by
the management to be necessary to the good of the business.
Economy and efficiency of operation are desirable ends to the public,
to employees and to employers. Which type of organization, company
unions or trade unions, is likely to contribute the more to economical
and efficient operation? There can be little question that judged by
this test company unions are superior. Limited in membership to the
employees of the business organization which they serve, they readily
develop an interest in and a loyalty to that organization which tend
to increased efficiency. Since the questions discussed and the conditions
to be regulated all relate to the one organization, the employee
representatives, and through them the rank and file, soon acquire a
knowledge of the production problems with which the employer is
struggling, realize their community of interest with him in solving these
problems successfully and develop that cooperative attitude that is
bound to follow from such realization.

By contrast trade unions, including in their membership employeest
not of one organization only but of as many competing organizations
throughout the country as can be induced to join, inevitably stress the
opposition of interest between their members and the business organizations
they serve. The very reason for their existence is the conviction
that the interests of employers and employees are opposed.
It is not by promoting economy and efficiency that they hope to benefit
their members but by bringing organized pressure to bear upon the
employers. The preamble of the constitution of the American Federation
of Labor, and the preambles of nearly all of the affiliated trade
unions, emphasize the contentious aspect of the relationship between
employers and employees. As the Federation's constitution phrases
it: "Whereas a struggle is going on in all the nations of the civilized
world between the oppressors and the oppressed of all countries, a
struggle between the capitalist and the laborer which grows in intensity
from year to year and will work disastrous results to the toiling
millions if they are not combined for mutual protection and benefit, it
therefore behooves," etc. Starting with this analysis of industrial
relations, the officials of American trade unions might be expected
to be even more belligerent in their attitude toward employers than in


### ---Economics-1923-0-06.txt---
fact they are. Individually they are often, if not usually, fully
aware of the cooperative aspect of the relationship between employers
and employees and alive to the dependence of favorable conditions for
their constituents upon efficient and economical production. But the
very form of the organizations which they represent precludes them
from being as cooperative in their practical attitude as the representatives
of company unions. Since they deal with many competing employers,
some considerate of their employees, some hard-faced exploiters,
they necessarily conceive of the interests they represent as on the
whole opposed to the interests of the employer and deem it their principal
business to force employers, through the pressure that organization
enables them to exert, to grant more favorable conditions than these
would voluntarily concede.

It requires no argument to prove that company unions are likewise
more conducive than trade unions to the continuous operation of the
industries with which their members are connected. When not pledged
by their constitutions to refrain from strikes, as are many of the railroad
company unions recently organized, they are deterred from such
activities by the lack of outside support.

While the evidence thus favors the company union as the better
agency for promoting economy and efficiency and continuity of operation,
the argument seems all on the side of the trade union from the
viewpoint of the employees' chief interests-favorable wages, hours,
working conditions, and participation in determining these conditions.
The company union is obviously not equipped to contend effectively for
better conditions with a reluctant employer. In the first place, all
the members, including even the officials of the organization, are
employees of the employer to be influenced and dependent upon his
good will for a livelihood. Second, because of their local character
they are debarred from acquiring knowledge of conditions in other
establishments where perhaps wages, hours, and working arrangements
are more favorable and thus are unable to exert the pressure which
possession of this knowledge would make possible. In the third place,
again because of their local character, they can offer no effective resistance
to adverse changes initiated by the employer, since without
outside support they can do little more than protest against what they
consider unfair.

The trade union enjoys obvious advantages at all three points. Its
officers and most of its members are independent of any individual
establishment or company and therefore can more aggressively press
for desirable changes. Second, its officers are in contact with conditions
in the given industry throughout the country and able to use
this broader knowledge effectively in connection with any local controversy
that may arise. Third, knowledge that his employees have


### ---Economics-1923-0-07.txt---
their trade union behind them serves to deter the employer from
initiating unfavorable changes, and when he does attempt such changes
the members immediately affected can resist much more vigorously
because of the support of the membership at large on which they can
usually count.

For all these reasons trade unions promise greater benefits to their
members than company unions, but there is another side that must
not be entirely overlooked. Overemphasis of the struggle aspect may
result in so hampering production that the larger share of the smaller
output that employees secure leaves them worse off than the smaller
share of the larger output that might have gone to them had they
been without such powerful organizations. The conditions that have
developed in the building trades in New York and Chicago illustrate
this. Many employers claim that the restrictive rules, jurisdictional
controversies, and wasteful practices of the unions so add to the cost
of construction that the whole building industry is kept in a depressed
condition when it might be highly prosperous for all concerned. This
may be an exaggerated view but no one who has followed recent investigations
can question that wage-earners in the building trades pay
collectively in unemployment and irregular employment a high price
for any benefits the restrictive policies of their craft unions may seem
to yield. Only when the standard conditions secured through trade
union bargaining are free from wasteful and hampering restrictions,
such as would not and could not be exacted by company unions, is the
case entirely in their favor even as regards wages, hours, and working
conditions.

The superiority of the company over the trade union as regards
low labor costs and the "ready acceptance by the employees of changes
deemed by the management to be necessary to the good of the business,"
the principal desiderata of employers, is obvious from the very nature
of the two organizations. Closer contact with and better understanding
of the production problems of the establishments they serve
make the officers and members of company unions much more openminded
with reference to proposed changes than the officials of trade
unions can be expected to be. This difference is registered in the
frequent complaint of employers that the trade unions try to run their
business and the countercharge of trade union leaders that company
unions (to quote from the A. F. of L. resolution on the subject) are
The more significant declarations in this resolution (No. 201) adopted at the


### ---Economics-1923-0-08.txt---
"a snare set up by the companies for the express purpose of deluding
workers into the belief that they have some protection" when in reality
they have none.

How is the issue affected in the case of public service industries when,
in the interest of continuous operation, the law prescribes standards
as to wages, hours, and working conditions that must be maintained,
creates boards or courts for enforcing these standards, and prohibits
the organized workers from joining in strikes to interrupt the continuous
flow of the commodities or services vital to the public interest?
It is evident at once that prohibitions on the right to strike largely
neutralize the advantages which flow from trade union organization.
Realization of this fact goes far to explain the uncompromising hostility
of the officials of the American trade unions to any curtailment
of the right to strike. Officers of the railroad brotherhoods have long
realized that actual use of the strike weapon would arouse such a
storm of public disapproval that the strike would be bound to fail and
yet they insist on a retention of the nom,inal right to strike because
they realize how its withdrawal will weaken the force of their efforts
to maintain the full strength of their unions.

To illustrate the point, consider what a feeble appeal the national
organization of street railway employees is able to offer to men
employed by a traction company in Kansas now that they have been
prohibited by law from engaging in strikes and at the same time afforded
an opportunity to carry their demands for higher wages, shorter
hours, or improved conditions to the Kansas Industrial Court! The
national organization cannot even assist greatly in the efforts to
change this Kansas plan since it owes its existence to Kansan rather
than national legislation. On the other hand, the case for organization
into company unions can be presented with convincing force by a
Kansas traction company which really wishes to establish better relations
with its employees and through their intelligent co6peration to
afford more economical and efficient service to the Kansas public.
Through their joint efforts the employees organized in a company
over trade unions they are at the same time just as actively enforcing a series  of vicious practices that hamstring such organizations and render them useless to
their employees;


### ---Economics-1923-0-09.txt---
union can improve greatly both the safety and the efficiency of the
service. If the employer couples with intelligent encouragement of
the company union considerate plans for enabling the employees to
acquire stock in the corporation, for profit-sharing, and for insurance
against illness, unemployment and dependent old age, he can readily
make any promised benefits of the national trade union seem hollow
and unreal and develop an esprit de corps among his employees that
will react not only to his advantage but to their advantage and to the
advantage of the public-providing always that just and reasonable
standards as to wages and hours are maintained by public authority.
The case is not so clear in connection with the operating departments
of the railroads. Here the employees are scattered over a
wider territory, standards as to wages, hours, etc., must approximate
uniformity on different roads at least in the same district and there
are other circumstances favoring national organizations. As we persist,
however, in the policy on which we have embarked of prescribing
by law standards for railroad employees, of maintaining a government
board to enforce these standards, and of limiting the right to strike,
steam railway employees, like street railway employees in Kansas,
must feel less strongly the urge to maintain their national organizations
and must become more alive to the advantages of more co6perative
relations with the employing companies.

All of the advantages of both forms of organization might be secured,
if railroad executives would continue to settle questions of wages,
etc., by negotiation with the brotherhoods and on their side the
brotherhoods would cooperate in the organization of their members
into company units for promoting safety, efficiency, and economy on
their respective roads and for adjusting local differences locally.'
Both might then use their influence not to destroy the Railroad Labor
Board but to bring about its reorganization so that it will more intelligently
fulfil its dual function of insuring the continuous operation
of the railroads and adjusting fairly and reasonably issues which the
executives and organized workers cannot settle through negotiation.
I have reserved for final consideration the aspect that is after all of
chief concern to economists-which form of organization, company
unions or trade unions, is likely to lead in the long run to the development
of the "more intelligent, more capable and more public-spirited
workers and citizens"? To answer this question it is necessary to
have in mind some ideal as to the goal toward which our industrial
development is leading. The ideal which commends itself to my own


### ---Economics-1923-0-10.txt---
mind is an industrial society in which the average level of intelligence
and understanding is continuously rising, in which the ownership of
capital is becoming more and more widely diffused and in which the
workers are progressively better paid for more congenial work varied
by more ample opportunities for leisure and recreation. With an
increase in average intelligence I venture also to hope that there may be
such improvements in our political organization that public service
industries may be more commonly not only owned but efficiently operated
by the government for the common benefit, that co6perative enterprises
may become more numerous and more habitually successful, and
that the employees who continue to work for profit-seeking employers
may be given a progressively larger voice in the determination of the
conditions under which they work and may be insured a reasonable
share in the profits they help to earn for such employers.
Toward the realization of this ideal, American trade unions have
made a contribution of inestimable value. Without them the struggle
between employers and employees would have been so unequal that the
wage system all along the line might have become, what it still is at
its worst, another name for the sweating system, and the gulf that
separates employers and employees might have been so widened that
the proposal to bridge it would have seemed chimerical. In their work
of fostering the independence and raising the standards of wageearners,
trade unions have necessarily developed as fighting organizations.
They have constantly stressed the opposition of interest between
employers and employees and the strike has been their most
effective weapon. If my analysis is correct we have now reached a
stage in public service industries where we can no longer tolerate the
use of the strike and where we are beginning to establish standards
through legislation and through adjustment boards which render resort
to it unnecessary.

Is the company union or the trade union best fitted for the further
development of the employee in public service industries as a worker
and as a citizen? Certainly many of the company unions that have
been launched in the last few years have little to commend them as
schools of efficiency or of forceful citizenship. They have been imposed
on reluctant employees by employers whose chief motive was to discourage
by this means all other forms of organization, a purpose
which has been frankly manifested in rules that on the one hand require
the employee to belong to the company union and on the other to
forswear allegiance to any and every other form of labor organization.
But along with these trade-union-smashing company unions are others
which put no limitations upon the right of the employee to belong to
other organizations but yet offer him so much more than the fighting


### ---Economics-1923-0-11.txt---
trade union can hope to offer him that they easily attract and hold
the great majority of the employees.

The limitation of the old-line trade union is that it is designed to
strengthen the power of its members to fight the exploiting type of
employer. When confronted by an employer who is really actuated
by good will toward his employees and is capable of organizing his
business so as to offer them better conditions than most of his competitors,
the trade union becomes in great measure superfluous. On
the other hand with such an employer a company union can be developed
into a powerful agency for raising the level of intelligence and
understanding of the employees, for according them a larger and
larger share in determining the conditions under which they shall
work and in preparing the way for that better industrial world which
we like to believe is in process of becoming.

The choice between the company union and the trade union as
regards this vital question as to which will develop the better worker
and citizen thus depends on the type of employer who as time goes on
is to manage our public service industries. So long as the profitseeking
exploiter type predominates, our preference must be unqualifiedly
for the fighting trade union. As the co6perative employer who
honestly regards himself as the senior partner in industry and his
employees as his junior partners becomes predominant there will be
less need for the fighting trade union and a larger field of usefulness
for the company union, as a step toward true copartnership in industry.


Our conclusions can be restated in a few words. There has been
a notable increase in the number of company unions in the last few
years and at the same time a marked decline in the membership of
trade unions.8 Company unions are better calculated than trade
unions to promote continuity, economy and efficiency of operation and
are more amenable to changes initiated by employers. Therefore
employers favor them and their associations, like the National Industrial
Conference Board, issue highly commendatory reports in regard
to their operation. They are not at all well fitted to contend
against the grasping type of employer for more favorable wages, hours
or working conditions and, therefore, trade unionists condemn them
as a delusion and a snare. In the case of public service industries the
public's vital interest in continuous operation is causing authoritative
adjustment boards to be created, standards as to wages, hours and
working conditions to be laid down by law and restrictions to be
imposed upon the right to strike. Moreover the public's automatic


### ---Economics-1923-0-12.txt---
condemnation of the side which interrupts a public service makes the
strike a boomerang. In these industries accordingly trade unions
operating along old lines are losing much of their usefulness, while the
field open to company unions is broadening. As regards the public
interest in the development of better all-round workers and citizens,
preference must be given to trade unions or company unions depending
upon the type of employer involved. The hope of the future is that
the employer actuated by good will and desiring to make the employment
relation a real copartnership in industry will become the predominant
type, and that under his leadership practicable plans will
be devised for combining national unions dealing with the problems of
general concern to all wage-earners in the industry with company
unions or shop committees for the settlement of local problems.
There is one aspect of the situation which this analysis seems to
overlook. Consciousness of the opposition of interests between employers
and employees has given vitality to the trade union, but an
even stronger cohesive influence has been the consciousness of common
interests that is causing the workers of all countries to unite even
across national boundaries. Is this growing sense of solidarity to be
eclipsed by the increasing realization fostered by company unions that
employers and employees have common interests as well as conflicting
interests? Nothing is further from my own expectation. What I
think rather is that the sense of commton interests which holds wageearners
together in trade unions will be in part transferred from the
industrial to the political field. The principal circumstance that may
render the trade union less indispensable is not any over-night conversion
of employers, but the taking over of the regulation of working
conditions in public service industries by the government. In the constitution
of adjustment boards, in the formulation of legal standards
as to working conditions, in the progressive development of social
insurance and other protective labor legislation, wage-earners will have
an ever increasing motive for concerning themselves with politics. The
United States has been relatively backward in this development but
what has happened in other English speaking countries, in the United
Kingdom, in Australia and in New Zealand, the growth of a labor party
until it has become the principal opposition party, is prophetic of what
is likely to happen here.

There is no danger that the consciousness of solidarity of interest
among wage-earners will grow weaker so long as the wage system
itself endures. What we must hope for from the changes which I have
forecast in connection with our public service industries, and this is
my last word, is that this consciousness of solidarity may be tempered
by a growing realization of our common interest in having these industries
really dominated by the motive of public service, rather than


### ---Economics-1923-0-13.txt---
by greed for excessive profits on the part of the employer or desire for
unfair advantages on the part of the employee. For it is only by
making the inspiring slogan that is justly prized by all sorts of labor
organizations, "Each for all and all for each," the slogan of our whole
industrial system that we can ever hope to solve the labor problem.
 ## Economics-1924-0


### ---Economics-1924-0-01.txt---
Economists have found income difficult to define. Professor Irving
Fisher in his book on The Nature of Capital and Income, published as
late as 1906, characterizes economic opinion regarding the nature of
income as "deplorably confused and conflicting."2 Professor Seligman,
writing in 1911, said: "The problem of defining income ...... is one
that almost baffles the student."' Still more recently, 1921, the staff
of the National Bureau of Economic Research said, with reference to
income statistics, that "one of the most serious difficulties in working
with these data is the difficulty of definition," and supported that statement
by propounding a long series of unanswered riddles concerning
4

income.

Yet, so far as my observation goes, most other people think they
know what income is. Many, to be sure, acknowledge difficulty in
correlating their ideas of income with the requirements of an incometax
return. This difficulty may be attributed to the peculiarities in
the statutory definition of taxable income, to the whimsicalities of a
bureaucracy, or, possibly, to a natural reluctance to pay anv tax.
For the tears which a tax incites dim the vision. But the man on the
street, until pressed to define income or sharply catechized as to whether
this or that item is income or not, is more or less amused at the suggestion
that he may not know what his income is. The testimony of a
vast preponderance of witnesses would, I imagine, be that income is a
very definite concept, of which it should be possible to frame an acceptable
definition.

Income is certainly one of the most fundamental concepts in the
science of economics and to clarify its definition, be it to ever so small
an extent, is worth while in itself. But in choosing this subject for
this occasion I have had another purpose in mind. That purpose was
to illustrate the desirability of a more intensive study than has heretofore


### ---Economics-1924-0-02.txt---
been made by economists of the time element in economics. I
hope to be able to show that one of the essential characteristics of
income is anticipated recurrence. I shall endeavor to exemplify by an
analysis of the time element in the concept of income a principle of
human conduct in matters economic which may prove to be of wide
and general significance and which, for lack of a better term, I have
ventured to call the law of recurrence. In view of the recent revival of
interest in what is sometimes called "pure theory" I need make no
apology for the somewhat metaphysical character of this law. It is
not more so than is many another law which we have accepted and
which we use daily and effectively in our work.

Professor Fetter has already pointed out that human wants are
recurrent and that income if it is to serve those wants must be recurrent.
' To this we may add that all the processes of production, together
with the costs or efforts expended upon them are also periodic
and recurrent.

It would be an exaggeration, not justifiable even for rhetorical purposes,
to say that economists have been unmindful of this law of recurrence
or of the significance of time. But I believe that something, and
it may be a rather large something, will be gained by focusing attention
still more than has already been done upon the element of time.
To guard at the start against a very probable misunderstanding it
may be well to explain that there are certain phases of time that I do
not propose to consider. I am not thinking of time in that sense in
which it was set up by Heraclitus of Ephesus as the basis of his philosophy.
To him time was suggestive merely of an eternal flux or
change. Nor do I refer to that progress in time or secular change
which is sometimes the thought behind the distinction so frequently
drawn between the static and the dynamic laws or conditions of economic
life. While time brings changes, and may mark the progress or
retrogression of civilization, what I conceive to be even more important
to the economist is that man orders his life very largely in anticipation
of that succession of events which he calls time. Thus fully aware that
he will grow hungry on recurrent occasions he strives to introduce a
similar recurrence into his provision of food. In the making of such
provision he is not merely anticipating the recurrence of appetite but
is controlled by the recurrence of the seasons, and by the all important
fact that any and every expenditure of force or of effort, whether on
the part of nature or of himself, requires time.

I have said that economists have already made important studies
based upon time. The whole theory (and justification) of interest
as it is ordinarily stated today is based on the distinction between
present and future goods or satisfactions. This explanation has been


### ---Economics-1924-0-03.txt---
accepted as a distinct advance upon that one of the older notions
which held that interest was "the reward of abstinence." Much that
was dark and mysterious in credit disappeared when Knies and Sherwood
pointed out that credit is the medium by which we relate the
future to the present. These two are examples of metaphysical studies
based on time. Another example is afforded by the recent investigations
of cycles in economic processes which aim by empirical methods
to discover, in the midst of the bewildering flux and change of time,
some of the periodic recurrences which underly economic processes.
These studies of cycles have been important not only for the fact that
they seem to justify the claim of economics to be a true or forecasting
science, but because they have given a new impulse to the study of
theory and to great improvements in our methods of research. An
exhaustive enumeration of other instances of the advantages of time
studies is not necessary, but mention may be made of the studies of
long and short periods of supply, of the velocity of the circulation of
money, of Moore's and preceding studies of meteorological cycles, of
the statistical studies of the movement of population in the sense of its
increase or diminution, and of the common distinction between time and
place values. Enough has been said, perhaps, to indicate that still
further studies, whether they be metaphysical or empirical, along the
same general lines may possibly be fruitful.

Before passing to the concept of income which I have selected as my
principal illustration I wish to suggest two other fields in which there
may be the possibility of a profitable use of the idea of a law of recurrence.
In certain parts of economic theory, notably the theory of
value, the principle of diminishing or marginal utility has been found
very helpful. It will, I believe, be found even more so if supplemented
by the principle of anticipated recurrence. The principle of diminishing
utility is stated by Professor Alfred Marshall as follows:
There is an endless variety of wants, but there is a limit to each separate
want. This familiar and fundamental tendency of human nature may be
stated in the law of satiable wants or of diminishing utility thus :-The total
utility of a thing to anyone (that is, the total pleasure or other benefit it
yields him) increases with every increase in his stock of it, but not as fast
as his stock increases. If his stock of it increases at a uniform rate the
benefit derived from it increases at a diminishing rate. In other words, the
additional benefit which a person derives from a given increase of his stock
of a thing, diminishes with every increase in the stock that he already has.6
The satiety here predicated is related to or considered as arising
at a given moment or period of time. It rests on what Marshall calls


### ---Economics-1924-0-04.txt---
mioment he has that stock or contemplates an addition to it. Now it is
well known that you can fill Professor Seager's "healthy American boy"
"to the very top" with hot cakes and maple syrup this morning only
to find that when tomorrow morning arrives he is quite ready for a
repetition. When we observe that the law of satiable wants must be
extended to include the anticipated recurrence of those wants, it becomes
obvious that the future use of a present stock or surplus comes
into the present reckoning, in a manner not sufficiently explained by
the ordinary reference to discount. To illustrate, with a given stock
of money, we may conclude that none of the various uses to which we
might conceivably put a dollar today is equal to the fun we may have
with it tomorrow. But, furthermore, the fact that we shall need a
dollar tomorrow puts a limit to the diminishing utility that we ascribe
to one today. This may help to an understanding of some of the intricate
problems of demand. It is not sufficient, for example, to show by
reference to the supply alone, that a barrel of flour can be sold more
cheaply in bulk than in ten pound lots because it costs less so to do.
It must also be shown why there is any demand at all for it in bulk
even at the lowered price per pound. If it were not for the future or
recurrent uses we would never buy of anything more than enough for
present use. By bringing the law of recurrence into relation to the
law of satiety it seems to me apparent that a more complete, if not a
fully complete, explanation of the demand for quantities in excess of
immediate use is obtained. This all too brief statement may suffice
to suggest one way in which more intensive study of the time element
may throw some additional light on the laws of demand.
May we now raise the second question, which is whether it may not
also be true that a study of the law of recurrence in production will
help to a new understanding or at least a clearer statement of the conditions
of supply? It is very generally accepted that one of the great
handicaps under which the human race labors in getting a living is that
law ordinarily referred to as the law of diminishing returns. Many
have already pointed out that this law is not confined, as was at one
time almost universally assumed, to the cultivation of land. Any
agency of production, be it land, machinery, or labor, gives a diminishing
return, or costs more to operate, per unit of output, if driven hard
or operated at a speed beyond a certain point. This is illustrated
very nicely by the now-a-days familiar facts as to the operation of a
gas engine in an automobile. Every such engine has a so-called "most
economical rate of speed" of operation. If you start slowly and
gradually speed your car up to the point of most economical operation,
a point fixed by the engineers who built it and in turn dependent upon
the strength of materials, friction, inertia and other physical or natural
laws, you pass at first through a region where there is a decreasing


### ---Economics-1924-0-05.txt---
cost per mile traveled. If, after you pass that point, you continue to
speed up and as you approach the final limit of speed you enter a
region in which you must expend more horsepower per mile run, or in
other words you get a diminishing return. The curves which engineers
set up to display the horsepower delivered by engines at different rates
of speed and which now begin to appear in the advertising pages of
periodicals, rise, up to given rate of speed, and then fall.
This is quite parallel to the results obtained in the cultivation of
land. Such is the pressure of our recurring need for food that we
cannot disregard time. We cannot wait for the accumulation of two,
three or more harvests. How much we can get in one season is the allimportant
consideration, and ordinarily we operate land at high speed
considering the state of the existing arts of cultivation. This we do
not so often do with mechanical appliances, for thanks to the excess
of power which many of them develop and to the ease of duplicating
them, we have less need to drive them at top speed, or to work them
to the limit of their capacity. It is also true that any worker who
is required or attempts to work at a speed beyond that at which his
physical powers operate at their greatest efficiency gives or receives a
diminishing return upon the effort put forth.

The relation of this to income may now be set forth, somewhat in the
form of a thesis. Income is essentially wealth available for recurrent
consumption, recurrently (or periodically) received. Its three essential
characteristics are: receipt, recurrence, and expendability. It is
wealth looked at primarily from the point of view of time. Income is
distinguished from capital in that capital is thought of as possessed,
not as being received; capital is regarded as continuting or enduring
and not as recurring; as wearing out, but not as recurrently consumed
or used to live on; and as something to be maintained in as enduring
a form as possible. Capital is wealth looked at primarily as standing
in space.

What constitutes "receiving income" and what is the criterion of
"spendability" are two very interesting matters which I may not stop
to discuss, save very brieflv, if I am to make clear in the short time
at my disposal the significance of time or recurrence as a characteristic
of income. So too I am forced to omit any consideration of the way
in which capital may emerge out of income by saving, or the manner in
which capital goods may under certain circumstances be included in
income.

That recurrence, more often expressed as regularity, is an essential
feature of income has been pointed out by many writers. But most of
them express it by saying that income is a "flow of wealth," a metaphor
which involves serious logical difficulties and overstresses the idea of
regularity or continuity. As I use it here, recurrence does not necessarily


### ---Economics-1924-0-06.txt---
imply regularity, nor of course irregularity, but merely periodicity.


It is not my intention at this time to review the many definitions of
income that are to be found in past literature. But there is one to
which I think we may profitably devote a moment's attention. It is
one that purports to be very ancient and is attributed to the very
highest authority. It claims divine origin and sanction. It is found
in the Book of Genesis (1 :29) and reads:

And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which
is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a
tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.

What man received under this ancient grant was the recurrent produce
of the garden. It was "to be for meat" or consumable; and
since that which was so to serve "for meat" was the seed and the fruit,
the tree, or capital, was not to be used but conserved. The ancient
chronicler's narrative seems to me to show a remarkable insight into
the true nature of income.

From the simple forms of income with which the Book of Genesis
deals or even from the later, but still ancient, notion that it consists of
"the corn on the threshing floor" or "the fullness of the wine press"
to the modern accountant's elaborate concept of income as the net
increase in the value of a proprietorship is indeed a far cry. Money
has entered in, affording us on the one hand a common denominator
for the now exceedingly various things which enter into income, but
serving on the other hand somewhat to obscure thought. For now we
have to determine whether money alone, or money and money's worth,
are income and whether things received recurrently and used but not
ordinarily measured in money are included. Thus we have Professor
Fisher who urges with convincing reasoning that true income should be
conceived of as consisting not in the money, nor in the things which
money will buy, but solely in the abstract services which property or
instruments will afford. Thus he makes true income something twice
removed from the money received. But then come the members of the
staff of the National Bureau of Economic Research who say "we do
not count as part of the National Income anything for which a price
is not commonly paid." These two recent authorities seem to stand
at two extremes.

Even before money came in there arose a great multiplication of the
things which are income. This was already true in the days when
"Adam delved and Eve span." Beside meat man early required raiment
and beside seed he now ate flesh. This we may easily ascertain
from the account of the first income tax. For is it not recorded that
Cain brought "of the fruits of the ground an offering unto the Lord,"
while Abel brought "the firstlings of his flock and the fat thereof"?


### ---Economics-1924-0-07.txt---
Still more difficult and confusing are the interrelations of different
incomes in the complex organization of our modern society. Out of
the cup of coffee which you had for breakfast fall a multitude of drops,
each tiny in itself, contributing from your earnings to the income of
literally thousands of others. One other illustration is all that I have
time for in this connection. There was once a hard working carpenter
who had always earned good wages, but who grew old, fell sick and
eventually passed to a well-earned rest. His income stopped when he
fell sick. But at once there descended upon him a horde of doctors,
dentists, X-ray photographers, nurses, druggists, hospital keepers,
ambulance drivers, and perhaps lawyers, money lenders, and pawn
brokers and finally the priest and undertaker. Now all of these, certainly
collectively, and possibly some singly, made more income in a
short time out of the poor carpenter's misfortunes than he had earned
in many a year. Moreover the rent went on, the water company, the
gas and electric company, the coal dealer, the butcher, the grocer, the
plumber and many others continued their profitable ministrations until
he got safely away into another world.

Out of the numerable interrelationships which these illustrations
suggest and which arise in large part from the complexities of modern
economic organization, come many difficulties in any study of income.
Out of these difficulties a way has frequently been sought by
attempting to define income as the social dividend or the net products
of industry or in some similar impersonal way. It is easy to say that
income should be thought of as consisting of the useful things produced,
or even of the enjoyment to be had from using them. While
this gets away from the confusion due to money, from double counting
and from other difficulties arising from the interrelations of private
incomes, it creates in turn a number of new difficulties. For the term
income is most commonly used to designate my income, your income
and his or her income; in short, private incomes. We can, of course,
say with propriety that the public revenues from taxation and other
sources are society's income when society is thus personified. But we
are changing the ordinary connotation of the term when we speak of
any kind of summation of your income, my income and his or her income
as national or social income, for it still remains mine and yours
and his or hers and not society's at all. Income is a purely relative
term. The things which constitute your or my income are not income
at all, when considered as severed from the relationship to you or to me
which the term income implies. When for technical purposes we thus
take the word out of its traditional field we may of course give it such
a technical meaning as will best serve our purpose. But it is, in any
case, a technical or artificial meaning and good to the extent that it
serves a purpose. Thus Professor Fisher's definition is admirable if


### ---Economics-1924-0-08.txt---
the purpose is to direct attention, let us say, to all that contributes to
social welfare and is equally useful in many other ways. But, as he
very correctly points out, it will not be at all serviceable as the basis
of an income tax. The one tacitly assumed by the National Bureau
of Economic Research, despite the fact that it differs radically from
that of Professor Fisher, is nevertheless admirably designed for the
stated purpose, wlhich is to "put a value on National Income," a purpose
impossible of achievement under Professor Fisher's definition. It is
by reason of considerations like these that the present discussion is
confined to private incomes.

If economists, and possibly jurists and accountants too, have not
found it easy to frame a definition of income on which all can readily
agree, is it possible that such a definition is to be found in the incometax
laws? This is hardly to be expected. -For each such tax is either
an outgrowth of some older tax or it has had to be fitted into some
existing system of taxes and thus has been adjusted to its environment.
Differences in the framework of government and differences in the industrial
and social organization of different countries would, one
might surmise, give rise to differences in the things included in taxable
incomes. Professor Felix Fliigel recently made an examination
of all or nearly all of the income-tax laws of the world for the express
purpose of ascertaining how they defined income. He found that: "In
most of the income-tax laws in force at the present time, a definition
of income is not to be fouqnd. The net taxable income is determined
by an enumeration of taxable and non-taxable receipts."8
It has frequently been found that an excellent method of arriving
at the meaning of a term in common use is to examine the things that
are commonly included with a view of ascertaining what their common
characteristics are.

Listed by common consent under income are many and somewhat
heterogeneous things. In the first rank are: wages, salaries, and
other forms of compensation for, or the results of, personal services or
activities. These are income whether received in the form of money or
in kind. I feel safe in saying that there is rarely if ever any doubt
about their income character. In fact, they are usually regarded as
pure income unmixed with any extraneous elements. They are usually
thought of as income in whole and not in part only. They are usually
contractual receipts. But that does not seem to be what makes them
income. For not only are personal earnings obtained outside of any
fixed contractual relation considered as income, but there are, as we
shall see in a moment, other forms of income not contractual in
character. Wages and the like are also usually the result of toil.


### ---Economics-1924-0-09.txt---
But that cannot be whiat makes them income, for there are many other
forms of income for which the recipient renders no toil.
That they come in or are received is undoubtedly one of the things
that makes them income, for that is inherent etymologically in the term.
This is essential characteristic number one. But that alone is not
sufficient, for many things are received which are never counted as
income. They are regarded as usable, consumable, and expendable
(or, more briefly, spendable) in whole or in part and as something
whiclh may properly be used to live on. And this is true although
there may be very good reasons why it is wise to save a part of them
and in fact to save as much as possible. By the term spendable, it
may be well to explain, is meant that they may be used to live on without
direct impairment of one's anticipated or expected future income.
That is, spending may not interfere with recurrence. This spendability
is a characteristic which, as we shall see, is common to all other
forms of income and may thus be put down as number two of the characteristics
we are seeking. Yet this alone is not conclusive. Treasure
trove, a gift of capital, an inheritance are all likewise spendable receipts.
That is they may be spent without impairment of anticipated
future income from sources available before they were received. But,
of course, it is not considered wise to spend these, unless they are small,
but to treat them as continuing or as capital, using only the income
therefrom for spending.

Wages and salaries, also fees received in the practice of one's profession,
and any other direct personal earnings in business or in other
activities are, in almnost all cases, recurrent, or the endeavor is to make
them so. In fact the endeavor is to make them as regularly recurrent
as possible. An isolated fee, an honorarium, or a prize received on
some rare occasion is something about the classification of which as
income there is always a doubt despite the fact that it is a spendable
receipt. The doubt apparently arises by reason of the absence of
anticipated recurrence. Recurrence then is characteristic number
three. It is moreover a characteristic inextricably interwoven with
the other two.

Next in order come interest and rents, both taken in the ordinary
business sense of those terms, and perhaps definitely anticipated dividends.
These are recognized by common usage as income. The first
two, interest and rent, have in common with wages and salaries four
characteristics. They are contractual, they are receipts, they are
spendable and they are recurrent. Dividends are, of course, not in
the same sense contractual but are recurrent, spendable receipts. These
all differ from wages in that they are not in the same sense the result
of toil. They have another outstanding feature which we have not
found before. That is, they are capitalizable. They are usually regarded


### ---Economics-1924-0-10.txt---
as so assured that they have a present value which can be computed
and for which the right to have them can be sold. Since this
characteristic is entirely absent from wages it cannot be one that distinguishes
income.

Common usage would include, in income, annuities and pensions.
Indeed they are sometimes considered the most desirable form of irncome.
They are spendable, recurrent receipts. They differ from
wages, in that they are not the result of present toil. They differ from
interest, rent, and dividends in that they are in a sense the reverse of
capitalizable. That is, the actuary tells us that each recurrent payment
is in part interest and in part "return of capital."
The man on the street would doubtless add to this list a fourth
group which he describes as gains and profits. This is certainly a
most difficult group. Because, in the first instance, gains and profits
are, whether regarded as two words or as a phrase, exceedingly difficult
to define, so as to suit everybody. We need not, however, penetrate
very deeply into the fog which surrounds them. We may, since
we have found three characteristics of income common to the other
three classes which we have already examined, reverse the original
procedure and inquire whether gains and profits have these three characteristics.
It will, I think, be readily admitted that those particular
gains and profits which are recurrent, expendable receipts are the ones
about whose income character there is seldom any doubt. Thus the
gains and profits of a merchant are his income. The possible or even
probable irregularity or uncertainty which distinguishes them from
some other incomes does not seem to militate against their inclusion in
income, provided they are expected to be recurrent. The same is true
of the gains and profits of dealers in capital assets, for the lands, stocks
and bonds, houses and the like are their stock in trade. Nor do the
gains and profits of a contractor, which may recur only at long intervals,
present any great difficulty. The gains and profits of a corporation
present difficulty primarily as to whether they shall be considered
the income of the company or of the stockholders. But it is when
gains and profits lack one or two of the three characteristics of income,
or have them in less than complete form, that a question arises. The
one that is most often lacking is recurrence. Thus gains and profits
from transactions outside of one's regular vocation or line of business,
like the profit from the sale of a home, are of doubtful income character.


Possibly the greatest difficulty here arises in connection with the
increment in the value of capital assets. For sometimes capital in and
of itself appears to grow. This is usually of no economic importance,
or, as Professor Fisher has so clearly shown, growth of capital has no
salable value, unless accompanied by a growth or increase of income


### ---Economics-1924-0-11.txt---
present or future or an approach of the day when income will be received.
A fruit tree may grow ever so large in trunk and branches,
but unless the new branches bear fruit, or are expected so to do, they
are of no value. Yet it sometimes happens that the tree, or any like
item of capital, is acquired and held for a time and then sold, all for
the express purpose of obtaining the increment in value, which increment
when realized is then used as income. It may be pointed out
that in this case the increment is regarded as one of a series of receipts
obtainable by dealing in capital assets as if merchandise. In any
event it is clear that the increase in value is due to the increase in the
fruit or the income, or to the approach of the day when there will be
fruit or income, and is only a part of the present value of the
future or anticipated income.

Common usage, furthermore, requires that each of these items shall
be considered as income only to the extent that it is net. For unless
it is net it is not properly regarded as spendable. This idea is imposed
upon us by what Thomas Mun called that "noble order of Debtor
and Creditor." Any advance necessary to obtain one's income, must
be won back before the true or spendable income is known. We may
not, however, carry the mathematical equation of debits and credits to
an extreme. The consequence of so doing is illustrated by that delicious
absurdity of the National Bureau of Economic Research when
it discovered "negative income," which upon examination is found to
mean an excess of outgo over income. But the expenses of obtaining
an income are often recouped in a receipt which contains the income
as well as the return of expense and so we have that distinction between
gross and net receipts which is sometimes carelessly called gross
and net income.

Without going into details I wish here to direct attention to the interesting
fact that the only permissible deductions from gross receipts
are those which Quesnay so illuminatingly called the "advances necessary
to obtain revenue" and that these must be recurrent. Losses,
therefore, to be deductible must be recurrent. Thus if a wage-earner's
house burns down or his automobile is wrecked, he does not consider
that his income has thereby been reduced. Losses of capital which are
not recurrent are quite easily distinguishable from losses of those advances
which are recurrent in the very nature of the processes of obtaining
income.

It was stated at the outset that the term anticipated recurrence, as
I conceive of it, does not imply a flow. A goodly number of the best
authorities, and quite recently Professors Fisher and Seligman, have
defined income as a flow of wealth or services. This metaphor of a
stream suggests Newton's description of "absolute true and mathematical
time" as something which "in itself and from its own nature


### ---Economics-1924-0-12.txt---
flows equally." Now, if income (or time itself) is described as a
stream merely to facilitate certain mathematical calculations, well
and good. If "flow" is used here merely metaphorically, then, recognizing
that there are limits to all metaphors, we can raise no objections
on that score. But time, unlike a stream, has no beginning or ending,
has no bounds past or through which it flows n-or does it, like a stream,
tend to move or in any way affect the things that are immersed in it.
It must, moreover, be pointed out that time is measurable only by the
succession of phenomena, and income is measurable only by the succession
of receipts, and that periodicity and measurability are of the
essence of both. The only thing that we have to go upon in the
measurement of time is the tick of the clock, the rising and setting of
the sun or some other selected succession of phenomena. Wlhat goes
on in the interval is sometlhing we can only assume. Similarly "accrual
of income" apart from receipt of income is an abstraction based
on an unprovable assumption of regularity. The reality is the receipt
of income in instalments on recurrent occasions.

In like manner the definition of capital as a "fund" is to my mind
insufficient to distinguish it from income. The term fund as used in
this connection has been authoritatively defined by Professor Fisher
as "a stock of wealth or of property, or its value," stock being in turn
defined as "the quantity of any specified thing at any given instant."
Now a quantity of income received at a given instant is distinctly a
given quantity of a specified tlhing at that instant, whether the thing
be a commodity or the abstract services which the commodity or an
instrument yields. It is only when the quantity is thought of as continuing
in possession through a considerable period of time that it is
designated as capital and that is a concept in which space is at least as
important as time.

These are indeed fine distinctions with which I have been dealing.
Doubtless they may be regarded as unnecessarily fine in view of the
admitted excellence of the definitions of income and of capital, which
are familiar. Be that as it may, these thoughts lhave been offered in
the hope that they may show that time studies are productive, and in
the further hope that if time studies themselves become recurrent new
light may be thrown into regions that are now in darkness, and Economic
Theory may yield more income.9
 ## Economics-1926-0


### ---Economics-1926-0-01.txt---
"Peace is the natural effect of trade," said Montesquieu.' Not is,
but should be, said Adam Smith. "Commerce, which ought naturally
to be among nations as among individuals, a bond of union and friendship,
has become the most fertile source of discord and animosity."'
More than a century later one of the wisest of historians reaffirmed
the Scotch economist's verdict. "It is not true that the development
of material interests promotes peace. Commerce, as the messenger of
peace, is a mythological character. In its origin it was brigandage;
in ancient, mediaeval, and modern times it occasioned wars. Men
fought on the Baltic for herring, and on all the seas for spices. In
our day the growth of industry creates the question of foreign markets,
which, in turn, brings the interests of the states into conflict. Commercial
rivalry and rancor thus strengthen national hatred."'
In what measure is this a true finding? In what measure must it
remain true? These are the questions I propose to discuss. They are
difficult questions, and the literature of economics throws surprisingly
little light upon them. There appear to be two general classes or
types of opinions, and little else beside.

One view-which may be called the popular or naive view, and which
has had, I believe, few adherents among economists of standing-sees
in war one of the normal, or eveni one of the rational, economic activities
of men. National groups are pictured as behaving like the economic man
of our methodological mythologies, each consistently and relentlessly
seeking its own interests. The interests of different groups clash,
conflicts arise, and conflicts grow into war.

In one way or another this view is persistently thrust before us.
We encounter it in our newspapers, where it serves as one of the
useful stock scenarios into which even the ordinary humdrum incidents
of economic and political intercourse among nations are fitted, and


### ---Economics-1926-0-02.txt---
which give to such incidents a meaning, an element of dramatic
interest, an easily recognizable place in the general course of events.
We meet it in some of our books on international politics and in some
of our histories-particularly in those that have been written during
the last thirty or forty years. We find it in the reports by which a
country's representatives in other lands keep their own government
informed of matters which may be presumed to affect its interests.
It even has a special literature of its own-a literature which had a
mushroom growth during the war.

Such interpretations of the economic relations of nations utilize
a set of familiar concepts and phrases: commercial warfare, the
struggle for markets, the control of raw materials, surplus products,
surplus population, economic imperialism, economic penetration, and
the like. Phrases such as the struggle for (national) existence and
the survival of the fittest are also pressed into service, carrying with
them the suggestion that international economic rivalries have an
appointed place in the processes of nature.

There are two different ways of handling this apparatus of ideas.
The distinguishing characteristic of one of these methods is that
national groups are depicted as alert and intelligent personalities,
conscious of their purposes and deliberately choosing the means of
achieving those purposes. Their foreign policies are conceived in
terms of strategy, of calculated economic advantage. They are, in
short, rational, or Machiavelian, states.

The other way of dealing with this common stock of notions
employs the apparatus of historical determinism. Causes, not purposes,
rule. National policies and national destinies are shaped by
the cumulative pressure of antecedent forces. The fruits of this
particular method are a variety of pseudo-scientific dogmas respecting
the "ultimate" causes of war. I call them pseudo-scientific because,
although they borrow the mask of science, they are and must be
arbitrary and unverifiable.

Of these various dogmas the one which has had the most pervasive
influence is the Marxian. This doctrine is to the effect that changes
in industrial technique, coupled with the private ownership of those
instruments of production through which alone the fruits of technical
progress can be realized, bring about a disparity between a country's
power to produce and its power to consume. The surplus product
accumulates in the market, where it leads periodically to crises. Endeavors
to find an outlet for it lead to economic rivalries among
nations, to the exploiting of undeveloped or backward countries, to
colonial expansion, to economic imperialism, and to wars.
The rational state does not appear in this picture. Instead there


### ---Economics-1926-0-03.txt---
is the capitalistic or class state, itself only ani historical incident,
marking a certain stage in the development of economic and political
institutions. The abiding thing is the conflict of the interests of
different economic classes. Mlodern wars are undertaken to secure
the advantage, not of a niation, but of a class. The real lines of
cleavage are to be found, not at national frontiers, but in the horizontal
stratification of society.

One element in this Marxian doctrine, nanmely the notion of surplus
products pressing outward across national boundaries under military
convoy, has an especially wide vogue. Writers who do not count
themselves followers of Marx, as well as those who do, employ it as a
routine formula.

The second general class or type of opinions to which I have referred
is distinguished, not by a special emphasis upon some particular
view of the nature and purposes of the aggressive activities of states,
but by a very definite thesis with respect to the wisdom and the consequences
of such activities. If wars are waged for economic advantage,
it is held, they defeat their own purposes. So too, in general, with all
national policies designed to advance the economic interests of one
state at the expense of other states. The truth is, it is alleged, that
a nation gains by the prosperity of other nations, not by their poverty.
This general thesis, if stated with some necessary qualifications,
would be subscribed to, I think, by most economists. It was brilliantly
expounded in Mr. Norman Angell's book, The Great Illusion. If, in
the days of its first vogue, that book seemed to be given little attention
by the economists, it was not, I imagine, because they disagreed with its
conclusions, but rather because most of those conclusions seemed to
them to be fairly commonplace economic doctrines. Doubtless Mr.
Angell weakened a good case by pushing it a little too far. He gave
too little weight to the special interests (not necessarily or even
generally class interests) that may be served by a belligerent or
imperialistic policy, even when other interests, larger but more diffused,
are injured. He did not adequately distinguish between immediate
and ultimate gains and losses. But taking his argument in the large,
and leaving details aside, it would command, I believe, the general
assent of economists. Some of the policies he finds unwise are, in fact,
policies we are accustomed to disparage by lumping them together and
calling them neo-mercantilism.

Assuming that Mr. Angell and the economists are right, is there
ground for hope that, as the result of a slow process of education, the
world would become convinced that aggressive economic nationalism
is profitless? Is there reason to believe that in this event the so-called
economic causes of war would be done away with? Such hopes, we


### ---Economics-1926-0-04.txt---
may be fairly sure, would be vain. For one thing, we have learned
in other fields that progress which has to wait upon men's becoming
more reasonable is likely to be delayed indefinitely. For another
thing-and here I am done with prelinminaries and pass to one of the
central themes of this paper-there is ground for challenging the
common views of the nature of international economic competition and
of its relation to war. The facts are too complex and too much
tangled to be fitted into the concepts and formulas which we customarily
employ.

We get those concepts and formulas, for the most part, from the
market place. We use them in describing and analyzing the mechanism
of money-making, of business competition. Here we find uniformities,
rational rules of conduct, out of which we build the framework of
economic science. That reliable mechanism, the "economic man," is
merely the average man, taken in his business relations,-taken, that
is, as buyer and seller. Now, save under very exceptional conditions
the economic relations of national groups are not like those of buyer
and seller. Not since the days of the crudest types of mercantilisrn
have they been so regarded by economists.

We concern ourselves with what nations should do in order to secure
their maximum economic advantage, we take account of some of the
things they actually do, and we even venture to explain or find reasons
for certain of these activities. But unless we are the bigoted devotees
of some dogmatic philosophy of history, we do not expect that the
behavior of national groups will conform to some definite rational
rule, that it will be stable and predictable.

The values of the world of international rivalry are more like tlle
irrational values of the world of consumers' choices than they are like
the money profits and the other money incomes for which men contend
in the world of commerce. Consider such phrases as economic
dominance, empire, economic independence, a place in the sun, territorial
expansion, control of markets, freedom of the seas. These
phrases denote some of the things for which men are supposed to fight.
Each has an economic significance. And yet, what discernible relation
is there between their potency for war and their economic significance?
Their real meaning appears only when they are projected against an
historical background; but there they lose any peculiarly economic
quality, and become merged in the general picture of national prejudices
and passions.

What I am trying to say has been put more skilfully by Walter
Lippman: "How does it happen that the people not concerned in a
special interest are so ready to defend it against the world? ....The
most obvious reason is that the private citizens are in the main


### ---Economics-1926-0-05.txt---
abysmally ignorant of what the real stakes of diplomacy are. They
do not think in terms of railroad concessions, mines, banking, and
trade.... Each contest for economic privileges appears to the public
as a kind of sporting event with loaded weapons. The people wish
their team, that is, their country, to win .... Business is the chief form
which competition between nations can assume. To be worsted in
that competition means more than to lose money; it means a loss of
social importance as well .... The way to increase national prestige is
to win economic victories by diplomatic methods.... Armament is
added as an 'insurance' for diplomacy, and of course military
preparation always calls forth military preparation. Every international
incident is seen then, not on its 'merits', but in its relation to the
whole vast complicated game, forever teetering on the edge of war."'
It may be that some of the interests which arouse these belligerent
emotions and around which they cluster are the immediate or lasting
rational economic interests of different national groups. It is plain
that some of them are the real interests of particular men or particular
classes within different national groups. But, as I have said, there is
no correlation between the economic importance of these interests and
their power to rally a people to their defense. They may be wholly
factitious, and yet be potent.

There is instruction to be had from recent developments in the field
of sports. I mean, of course, intercollegiate and other inter-group
sports, in which small teams of selected competitors carry with them
into their contests the rivalries of the groups they represent. Members
of these rival groups like to absorb themselves in these conflicts by
reading about them. The purveyors of sporting news have found that
this is an appetite which can be stimulated, that the interests of persons
outside the rival groups may be engaged, and even that the number of
partisans may be increased.

They have found also that the number of competitions may be fruitfully
multiplied by bringing existing contests into new relations. An
intricate system of mythical regional and class "championships" has
been invented. Teams are ranked by the percentage of victories, by
the total scores they have made, and in various other ways. Ingenious
methods of rating the achievements of individual players have been
devised.

These artifices succeed in entrapping the interests of readers. And
they accomplish more than that. Some of these make-believe competitions
become real. The spirit of rivalrv reaches out and takes hold
of them. They supply new criteria of superiority, new symbols of
prestige. Some of them may come to be regarded as expressions of


### ---Economics-1926-0-06.txt---
inevitable "natural rivalries." The facts, however, suggest that
though there may be a vaguely circumscribed field of potential rivalries,
within that field competitive alignments are free to arrange themselves
in various patterns, while one thing or another may come to be adopted
as an emblem of success.

In the larger field of international economic rivalries group
psychology retains its characteristics. The world in which national
groups strive to realize their opposed interests is in large part a
world of man-made patterns and symbols. It is a new world, for
nations as we know them are only a few hundred years old-no older
than the new world-commerce which lhelped to bring them into being and
which remains one of the fields in which their oppositions and rivalries
feed and grow.

Among the architects of this world have been the historians. They
have played a role not unlike that of the contemporary newspaper
annalist of competitive sports. Most histories have been histories of
nations. By abstractinig the nation from the other forms which human
relations take, by emphasizing the peculiar anid differentiating elements
in a nation's institutional heritage, they inevitably deepen the
cleavages between nationial groups. Many histories have put disproportionate
emphasis upon wars. And in explaining wars they have
often put more reliance upon "economic motives" than either economics
or psychology would warrant.

"It is possible to study a multitude of histories," says John Dewey,
"and yet permit history, the record of the transitions and transformations
of human activities, to escape us. Taking history in separate
doses of this country and that,. . . .we miss the fact of history and also
its lesson; the diversity of institutional forms and customs which the
same human nature may produce and employ. An infantile logic, now
happily expelled from physical science, taught that opium put men to
sleep because of its dormitive potency. We follow the same logic in
social matters when we believe that a war exists because of bellicose
instincts; or that a particular economic regime is necessary because
of acquisitive and competitive impulses which must find expression....
We have constructed an elaborate political zoology as mythological
and not nearly as poetic as that other zo6logy of phoenixes, griffins,
and unicorns. Native racial spirit, the spirit of the people, or of the
time, national destirny are familiar figures in this social zoo. As names
for effects, for existing customs, they are sometimes useful. As names
for explanatory forces they work havoc with intelligence."5 And so,
we may add, do such names as economic motives and the economic
causes of war.


### ---Economics-1926-0-07.txt---
William James wrote a famous essay on the "The Moral Equivalents
of War." Conceivably we might speak of equivalents or substitutes
for economic antagonisms. But what we need most are substitutes for
the habitual patterns which elicit and direct those antagonisms.
Something may be accomplished, undoubtedly, by continued emphasis
upon the wasteful stupidity of most of the efforts national governments
make to secure economic advantages outside of their own territories,
although this something is not very much. But there is reason
to hope that with the increase in the number and variety of contacts
between the peoples of different countries, national antagonisms will
diminish. Not, however, that the growth of concreter forms of
knowledge, born of such contacts, can be counted upon to dissipate
our abstract notions of alien types of men and of rational but
malevolent states. The real ground for hope is rather that with the
growth of communication and of economic interpenetration, new forms
of organization will have to be devised.

Organization generally provides a mechanisl by means of which
some measure of external control can be exercised over men's activities.
But that is only a small part of its significance. Organization directs
activities as well as controls them.

The world's political organization has not kept pace with its economic
organization. Increasing interdependence asserts itself in
economic life. Raw materials, markets, borrowing and lending, trade
routes, prices, monetary and banking policies are things in which the
different peoples of the world have a joint as well as a separate
interest.

National states, each acting only for itself, are inefficient guardians
of these joint interests. Within a nation's own boundaries it manages
to bring the conflicting interests of different sections and groups into
some sort of balance and to enforce general standards and rules
governing the conduct of business enterprise. Just because there are
these rules of the game, because political organization is nation-wide,
the game itself takes on a different character, the nature and the
meaning of sectional conflict is changed. An American scholar who
has thrown a new and transforming light on our national history has
said: "We must frankly face the fact that in this vast and heterogeneous
nation, this sister of all Europe, regional geography is a
fundamental fact; that the American peace has been achieved by
restraining sectional selfishness and assertiveness and by coming to
agreements rather than to reciprocal denunciations or to blows....
Statesmanship in this nation consists not only in representing the
special interests of the leader's own section, but in finding a formula


### ---Economics-1926-0-08.txt---
that will bring the different regions together in a common policy."6
But the nation, in its larger relations, is itself a section. Outside of
its own borders its interests, real or supposed, conflict with the interests
of other nations. Here statesmanship becomes sectional leadership.
The role which the statesman finds easiest to play is often one which
is assigned to him in the popular dramatization of the facts of international
economic intercourse. His task would be harder, however, if
his countrymen insisted or expected that the foreign policy of their
own government should have the same degree of design and purpose,
the same elements of plot and strategy, that they see in the foreign
policies of other states.

There is a modern animism which imputes malign intent, not to the
forces of nature, but to personified "nations." The preposterous
myth that Pan-Germanism was a definite national policy could not have
found lodgment except in minds patterned to receive it. In a newspaper
which lies beforq me as I write, there is a short dispatch telling
that a new German company has been organized which proposes to
operate in Russia. The headline reads: "Germany Getting Grip on
Russia." Not long ago another dispatch told of a rather notable
increase of some relatively unimportant German exports to Sweden.
The headline and an introductory paragraph interpreted this ordinary
incident of trade as meaning that Germany was getting "control" of
Swedish markets. And when it is not Germany it is England or Japan
or some other country. A clipping bureau, I suppose, could supply
hundreds of such items each year. No one country has a monopoly of
these childish absurdities. Running through the pre-war files of an
important German commercial journal I found an astonishing number
of references to the "conquest" (Eroberung) of Latin America by the
United States; and that interpretation of our plans (not of our
achievements) is common in Latin American countries.
A good deal of what passes for information respecting the purposes
and activities of other nations is no better than malicious gossip. Such
is the character of some of the information which governments receive
through diplomatic channels. Bismarck said, "I have often not shown
dispatches from our representatives in German Courts in the highest
quarters, because they had a tendency to be piquant, or to relate and
give importance to annoying expressions or occurences, rather than to
foster and improve the relations between the two courts, so long as the
latter, as in Germany is always the case, was the task of our policy."'
But even when a government's policy is "to foster and improve
relations," no such censorship is possible over the open channels of


### ---Economics-1926-0-09.txt---
communication through which the people of a democracy gain their
impressions of the purposes of other states.

However slight their foundation, these impressions, like our general
views of the nature of international economic competition, help to
determine our attitudes and to shape our conduct. Fear of the power
and the purposes of American trusts was one of the reasons Germans
gave for the organization of cartels in some of their export industries.
The German cartels, in turn, figured largely in the discussions which
led to the Webb-Pomerene act of 1918,-a particularly invidious piece
of legislation, which permits in our export trade combinations of a type
that is illegal in our domestic trade, with the proviso that such combinations
shall not "restrain" the trade of or compete unfairly with
American competitors.

In a hundred other incidents where retaliation leads to retaliation,
anyone who cares to look may see part of the actual process by which
a world of gossip and of myths becomes the world of national policies.
Nothing else is possible so long as each separate state is not only the
guardian of its own interests but is also the interpreter of the interests
and purposes of other states. There is no more ground for hoping
that these types of economic friction will be done away with by changes
in the policies of separate states than there is for expecting that
armaments can be reduced effectively in any other way than by common
agreement among nations.

In certain limited fields of economic activity, common agreements
have already been reached and organs of international administration
have been established. This is notably true in respect of communications
and transport, where elementary considerations of convenmence
and economy, as well as the common interest in uniform and nondiscriminatory
rules, make agreements imperative. The advantages

of conformity are plainly visible, while there is little in nonconformity
to which even a fictitious "national interest" can be attached.
There is more significance in what has been accomplished in freeing
transit trade from duties and from unreasonable transport charges
and in creating international easements in important rivers and canals.
Here the interest of a particular state may sometimes be opposed to
the interests of other states. Taking advantage of a favorable geographical
position, it might take tribute from the commerce which
crosses its territory (as states often have in the past). There has been
an element of compulsion-sometimes the compulsion of stronger states
and sometimes the compulsion of circumstances-in the progress that
has been made in these matters. To take only one example, the provisions
relating to freedom of transit in the treaties concluded at the
end of the World War, one-sided though those provisions were, helped


### ---Economics-1926-0-10.txt---
to prepare the way for the general European agreement embodied in
the Barcelona Convention of March, 1921.

Agreements for the suppression of the use of unfair methods of
competition in international trade have been limited, for the most part,
to the protection of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade names,
and the like. In these matters the interests of different states are not
so much joint as they are reciprocal, and they are unevenly reciprocal.
Substantial inequalities remai'n, particularly in the effectiveness with
which the provisions agreed to are enforced.

International agreements with respect to labor legislation may
possibly be regarded as tending toward fairer standards of international
industrial competition. But that is not their chief significance;
and I can do no more than mention them here. Nor can I
discuss the important preparatory work done under the auspices of
the Economic Committee of the League of Nations on commercial
arbitration, export and import prohibitions, double taxation, and other
matters.

It will be observed that few of the operative agreements which I
have discussed thus far cut deeply into what are generally deemed to
be important national interests or have come to be symbols of national
prestige. None of them, to put it concretely, has much news value.
The history of the international agreements that have sought really
to limit the scope of international commercial "strategy" has been a
record of halting achievement. Like price agreements and pooling
arrangements among business concerns, such covenants appear to
remain effective only so long as that situation serves the interests of the
more important signatories. Such was the history of the Berlin act
of 1885, of the Brussels Sugar Convention of 1902, and of the Act of
Algeciras of 1906.

In the absence of general agreements, the international economic
relations of a large part of the world have been governed by a complex
network of bilateral commercial treaties, held together and made
at all consistent and tolerable only by most-favored-nation clauses.
The system thus set up, especially in continental Europe, was unstable;
for a single important new treaty would upset things until, by the
revision of other treaties, a condition of temporary equilibrium could
again be reached. The system was uneven; for the strong states were
able to bargain more effectively than the weaker ones. In particular,
industrial states had a more advantageous position than agricultural
states. Questions of commercial policy were recurrently projected
into the field of international politics, so that they were quite commonly
discussed in terms of Machtpolitilk. Commercial treaties were regarded


### ---Economics-1926-0-11.txt---
as instruments by which a state's power could be projected across its
own boundaries.

Such a system must often have undesirable economic effects. The
present tariffs of some of the new states of eastern Europe afford an
illustration. These tariffs are much higher than the real economic
interests of those states demand. Artificial barriers set up at new
boundary lines, these new tariffs block long-established channels of
trade and hinder the economic recovery of that part of the world.
Not all the blame can be put upon the newly stimulated spirit of
nationalism. For these are bargaining tariffs. Some of the highest
duties are imposed, not upon goods which the tariff-making country
particularly desires to keep out, but upon goods which another country
desires to get in. Aimed largely at one another, these new tariffs are
an example of the wasteful futility of this method of procedure.
Commercial treaties, coupled with most-favored-nation provisions, will
gradually reduce them, but in the meanwhile the costs are heavy. And
experience has shown, I think, that tariffs made in this way generally
have an upward trend. New vantage points are sought from time to
time; special industrial interests look upon the reductions made in
treaties as ground regrettably lost; national sentiment, also, learns to
look upon concessions as retreat, so that there is a cumulative pressure
upward.

The United States has stood aloof from this system. We have held,
though not with complete consistency, to the policy of the equal treatment
of the commerce of all other nations. But the Tariff act of 1922
empowers the President to impose retaliatory duties upon imports
from any country which discriminates against our commerce; and the
same general principle was embodied in the Tariff act of 1909. We
determine the other country's guilt; and we impose what we consider
an appropriate penalty-surely an unsatisfactory way of handling the
matter.

Students of these problems have become pretty well convinced, I
think, that the most important single step toward their solution lies
in the adoption of multilateral conventions defining the conditions of
economic intercourse among the nations of the world. The filrst
principle, the irreducible minimum, in such agreements is the doing
away with a nation's power to discriminate against the trade of any
other nation. This was the meaning of the third of President Wilson's
Fourteen Points: "The removal, so far as possible, of all economic
barriers and the establishment of an equality of trade conditions."
This, beyond doubt, is part of the meaning of the clause in the Covenant
of the League of Nations which binds the signers of that covenant to


### ---Economics-1926-0-12.txt---
and of transit and equitable treatment for the commerce of all Members
of the League.""

The League's word "equitable" is better in some ways than
President Wilson's word "equality." It does not carry with it so
clear and definite a commitment; but for that very reason it does not
suggest precise limits to the scope of international economic agreements.


In fact, the phrase, "equitable treatment for commerce," suggests
different things to men in different countries. To some it means equal,
that is, general most-favored-nation treatment. Some would add
national treatment in respect of certain matters, such, for example,
as the rights of foreign vessels in national ports, the taxes imposed
upon foreigners, or the protection given them against unfair competition.
To others it includes anti-dumping arrangements, the removal
of restrictions, on exports, unrestricted access to raw materials,
or the open door in undeveloped parts of the world. I do not intend
to weary you further by discussing these various possibilities. Just
now the content of international economic agreements is not so important
as it is that agreements should be reached.

I have already said that the more important agreements of this
general sort made before the war were unsuccessful. The difficulty with
them was that they were exceptional arrangements. Belgium in the
Congo and France in Morocco were hampered by restrictions that had
the character of special disabilities, such as had not been attached to
the colonial expansion of other countries. The Brussels Sugar Convention
was an anomaly in a world in which nations were generally left
free to determine their commercial policies as they pleased. To be
really effective, such agreements must establish a general rule, not an
exception to a rule. They must in some way create a new standard
pattern of thought and conduct.

The resolution by which a few months ago the Assembly of the
League of Nations invited the Council of the League to institute
preparations for an international economic conference referred to the
"economic difficulties which stand in the way of the restoration of
general prosperity," and expressed the conviction that "economic
peace will contribute largely to ensuring the security of peoples." As
matters now stand in Europe, these two objects, economic restoration
and economic peace, are closely connected. But of the two, economic
peace is the more important, for it is the condition of the other.
Consider what has already been accomplished toward financial
reconstruction. The real significance of the plans for the financial


### ---Economics-1926-0-13.txt---
rehabilitation of Austria, Hungary and Germany is that they embody
international agreements. The securing of these international agreements
was both a more difficult and a more important achievement
than the formulating of the particular economic remedies that were to
be administered. It is easier to determine what economic precedure is
wise than it is to change national attitudes.

In these instances the changing of national attitudes was achieved
by organizing and giving expression to the common interests of nations.
The hopelessness of other methods had to be shown before this could
be accomplished, but once done, it is not easily undone. The new
attitude creates a new interest. Even if some of its economic provisions
should break down, as is altogether likely, the Dawes plan
probably will have solved the reparation problem.

The significance of these achievements for the general problem which
I have undertaken to discuss is obvious. The attitudes and activities
which we have in mind when we speak of "the economic causes of war"
are not inevitable and unyielding expressions of permanent traits of
human nature. They are forms or patterns of conduct and are
correlated with particular modes of organization. Other forms and
patterns, associated with other modes of organization, are within the
bounds of practicable achievement. This does not mean that the task
is simple, or that it can be accomplished merely by finding a magic
formula. Nor does any sensible person expect that sectional interests
or international economic antagonisms will disappear. But it is not
unreasonable to hope that some day they may be subordinated to new
and larger interests which will grow out of new forms of organization.
At any rate, the only way to secure economic peace is to turn our eyes
toward it.
 ## Economics-1928-0


### ---Economics-1928-0-01.txt---
In taxation, says the cynic, "let me make the deals and I care not
who makes the ideals." How far we should go with the cynic, will be
discussed hereafter; but I think we must begin with him.
While taxation may not have started as a class struggle, and while
the class element is modified in the United States by the operation of
constitutional inhibitions, modern taxation or tax-making in its most
characteristic aspect is a group contest in which powerful interests
vigorously endeavor to rid tlhemselves of present or proposed tax burdens.
It is, first of all, a hard game in which he who trusts wholly to
economics, reason, and justice, will in the end retire beaten and disillusioned.
Class politics is of the essence of taxation.

This truth applies not only to the political game of tax-making. It
affects vitally the economist's thinking about taxation. Contest and
class politics by themselves yield neither the truth nor sound taxes. But
they are indispensable elements in discovering what is truth and sound
policy in matters of taxation. For each sound principle of taxation
laid down by the economist or statesman, the taxpayers themselves, in
bitter struggle, have brought to light a half dozen. The intellectual
interest of the aloof thinker is not enough. The creative inspiration
of contest is also needed. Clashing litigants have made more good law
than wise legislators and disinterested judges.

The truth not only emerges from contest, but the contest in part
determines what is the truth. In this domain of life and thought, the
facts are in some part what our own efforts make them. Expenditures
and revenue yields are dependent in material degree upon the resistance
of the taxpayers themselves. Tax reduction exercises a potent check
upon proposed expenditures. Fear of a deficit spurs fiscal officials to
settle old tax cases-both to pay refunds and collect back taxes with
greater promptness than would otherwise be exercised. There are over
18,000 unsettled tax appeals pending before the United States Board
of Tax Appeals, in which the government claims approximately
$550,000,000 additional taxes. Past experience shows both that there
has been harmful delay in the settlement of these cases, and that settlement
yields approximately one-half of the additional taxes claimed by


### ---Economics-1928-0-02.txt---
the government. Had we been operating in the past few years undex
real danger of a deficit, a substantial proportion of these cases would
have been cleaned up, to the great benefit of both the Treasury and the
taxpayers concerned.

The taxpayer cannot be content to let statistics determine how much
future revenues will be; he wants to have a hand in making and moulding
those statistics. He cannot permit fiscal officials to determine of
and by themselves what kinds and rates of taxes are expedient. I have
said elsewhere that it is essential to the right solution of such questions
that taxpayers pull at the coat tails of distinguished statesmen and say,
insistently, what they believe they can and ought to pay. Tax-making
is only in part a matter of thinking; it is in large part a balance of
powers and forces. The fiscal official himself has an interest at stake,
which leads him-if unchecked-to play excessively safe. Moreover,
legislators and fiscal officials make their decisions-both between expenditures
and tax reductions and between various groups of taxpayerswith
keen regard to the revealed power of the various contestants.
In the fiscal year ended June 30, 1927, over $1,100,000,000 of the
public debt was retired: over $500,000,000 from the sinking fund, and
over $600,000,000 from the surplus of $635,809,000 accumulated in
that year. For the fiscal year ending June 30, 1928, the sinking fund,
together with payments on obligations of the foreign governments, will
result in the retirement of approximately $537,000,000 of the public
debt, while the surplus will amount to $454,000,000, it is estimated,
making possible a total debt reduction approaching $1,000,000,000.
The public debt is now in the neighborhood of $18,500,000,000. Taking
into account the steady growth of the sinking fund, and the expected
increase in the payments on account of foreign obligations, the entire
public debt will be extinguished in less than fifteen years, if surpluses
appear in the future as they have in the past.

Trhe American taxpayer may ask-what then? Are we paying down
our debt at the rate of from $750,000,000 to $1,000,000,000 a year, in
order at the end of the process to cancel our foreign claims and exempt
the foreign taxpayer? Such a program is worthy of solemn consideration.
But it should be consciously adopted, if at all. It will do no
good suddenly to awaken to such an issue. To wipe out our debt and
then be asked to cancel the foreigners' debt to us, will lead to accusations
of deception and trickery. It will stir domestic controversy
that will complicate, and not simplify, our foreign problems.
The resistance of the taxpayer thus brings to light facts and issues
hidden in the mists of the future. It modifies those facts and issues. It
has been said of old: You shall seek the truth and the truth shall make
you uncomfortable. In taxation it may be said: You shall, in part, make
the issue and the truth, and in so doing you will be less uncomfortable.


### ---Economics-1928-0-03.txt---
I may take time at this point to express the personal opinion that
that branch of economics devoted to taxation can never be merely or
principally a science. Taxes are fixed much as wages are fixed, by the
play of competitive forces; but all sorts of collateral factors obscure
the process, and the competitive efficiency of many groups is low. You
may usually count on selfishness, but not always on enlightened selfishness.
The interests or forces whose resultant the economist seeks to
trace, vary with education, the progress of democracy, the acquisition
of political finesse and tax technique on the part of the spokesman or
representatives of such interests. As is noted hereafter, regard for
the general welfare and for sound public policy frequently exercises a
powerful influence; but this is an influence which varies greatly with
the political atmosphere, and with the character of the political leaders
who chance to be in office.

I suspect that what is true of taxation is also true of the field of
labor and other branches of economics, in which the "underlying uniformities
which the economist seeks" are vitally dependent upon the
conscious and concerted action of social groups. Political economy is
concerned quite as much with the future as with the past. Values, prices
and wages are part of the stock in trade of the economist. They depend
as much upon the probable future as on the finished past. The
economist who is rusty on statistics and history, but who guesses well
the future decline and fall of economic powers, the extent to which old
alliances will be dissolved and new alignments formed, the time in which
a federal reserve system will suppress the old and create a new variety
of financial panic, the rapidity with which birth control will arrest the
"devastating torrent of children" in Protestant and Catholic countries,
the immediate and later effects of the restriction of immigration, the
in-terval that must pass before the concerted regulation of output
is legitimized in industry as in agriculture and labor, the effect of tax
reduction in neutralizing tax avoidance and increasing the taxable basis
-he who by imagination or instinct or reason gauges well these forces
of the future, is a better economist in my opinion, than he who is master
only of the facts of the past.

History often repeats itself. But as frequently it fails to repeat. The
economist's own work sets in motion influences which modify the group
action which he studies. The popularization of forecasting, thus, has
appreciably affected the character of the recent business cycle. What
Sir Josiah Stamp has said of statistics is equally true of economic
history; they are invaluable aids to intelligence; they can never be
substitutes for intelligence. The mind may be closed as well as enkindled
and illuminated by erudition. It is necessary to know history
and statistics. It is just as necessary to know when to toss them overboard.
The disinterested mind and the passion for precision are of


### ---Economics-1928-0-04.txt---
priceless value in the calling of the economist. But they cannot of
themselves produce the broad judgmeent and wisdom which envisage the
future as well as the past, and which constitute the fruit and flower of
political economy. A political economy which is a mere science is not
enough; partly because it is an impossiblity, partly because there is
something more excellent.

The dominating factor of economic interest in taxation determines
to a large extent the role or place of idealism in taxation. Ideals are
effective when they further the economic interest of powerful groups.
The reformers who preached progressive taxation, when the weight of
authoritative economic opinion was against them, have exercised a
powerful practical influence upon the tax systems of the world, and I
have no doubt that they have won, in part because they were right, because
their proposals were sound. But the true explanation of their victory
is found in the fact that they were playing the game of democracy.
On the other hand, the idealists whose ideals ran counter to the
economic interests of the majority, have achieved few positive or visible
results. I recall few personalities in the American field of practical
economics, as powerful and persuasive as Henry George and William
Graham Sumnner. If personality and persuasiveness could put over
economic ideals in the field of taxation, the single tax and free trade
would, by this time, be live issues. I pass no verdict upon the validity
of these proposals. Sound or unsound, however, they cut little figure.
Ihey are negligible because they run counter to the interests of the
majority-or are, by the majority, supposed to do so. On the other
hand, if land ownership over large areas ever becomes concentrated in
the hands of the few, it is probable that we shall see a vigorous application
of the single-tax doctrine. If free trade ever accords visibly
with the interest of the majority, who can doubt that we shall move
rapidly in the direction of free trade? But in both cases we shall move,
not because justice or economic "science" beckons in a particular
direction, but because in that direction lies the economic interest of the
maj ority.

Thrice blessed is the idealist whose honest conviction coincides with
the visible economic interest of the majority. Doubly blessed is he
whose honest conviction coinciles with the real but, for the moment,
unrealized economic interest of the majority; he has but to awaken a
sleeping lion. Difficult but sti1 comfortable is the lot of the idealist,
whose modest task is to keep within due bounds the action of a majority
with the economic interest of which his convictions, in the main,
coincide. But alas for the idealist whose convictions call for a forthright
and conscious sacrifice of the obvious economic interest of the
maj ority.


### ---Economics-1928-0-05.txt---
Must we then swim only with the stream? Is there no place for the
sound but unpalatable truth? Has the tax economist no effective
function but that of guiding, perhaps moderating, the selfish interests
of powerful groups? Are ideals and idealism in taxation useless, or
worse than useless?

Certainly, in my opinion, the callow idealist, the jejune preachments
of the narrow-minded, are worse than useless. Idealism as a striving
after perfect truth or justice, is mostly a nuisance. It does good, but
more harm than good, if injected into practical affairs. The ideal of
a single land tax, or of a single sales tax, or of a single tax on luxuries
or expenditures, after all their repercussions and reactions are weighed,
does more to discredit the partial truth resident in each proposal than
to give due effect to that partial truth. Narrowness and restricted
vision are unforgivable sins in those who essay to guide tax thinking.
"The ends of government," said John Stuart Mill, "are as comprehensive
as those of the social union. They consist of all the good, and all
the immunity from evil, which the existence of government can be made,
either directly or indirectly, to bestow." Mill stated thus, to my thinking,
the deepest truth applicable to taxation and tax making. Its validity,
I think, is assumed by the untutored practical mind. However far
his conduct may depart from this path, the man on the street accepts it
as the true path. To obscure that path in the name of perfect truth,
or ideal justice, or economic "science," is unforgivable. In taxation
let the teacher be silent who cannot hold many objects and ends in mind
at the same time; or let him speak only of the narrow, technical problem
whose solution requires learning rather than wisdom.
Taxes are as complex as life. The moralist calls for just taxes; but
taxes cannot just be just. The administrator asks for simple taxes; but
experience shows that they cannot simply be simple. Some politicians
would mould taxes wholly in accordance with political expediency; but
statesmen realize that in the long run this would be impolitic. The business
man demands practical taxes; but financial history proves that it is impracticable
to make them merely practical. The legalist wants taxes administered
strictly according to law; but the record of the income tax and the
property tax makes it clear that such taxes cannot be successfully administered
by methods meticulously legal.

The injury done by a misplaced ideal is well illustrated in the application
of the federal income tax. The 'Ndministration of the tax is, in
many respects, deserving of the highest.praise, and it has been greatly
improved in recent months. But the app$lication of the tax to the larger
and more complicated cases in the past, has been characterized by
vacillation, delay, and demoralizing uncertainty. We are told in a recent
report by the Treasury Department:

More than 19,000 undecided cases are pending before the Board of Tax
Appeals, involving aggregate deficiencies of approximately $550,000,000.


### ---Economics-1928-0-06.txt---
The petitions being filed with the Board of Tax Appeals exceed the number
disposed of by more than 200 per month ... . It has been estimated that
the Board would be required to devote approximately four years-if no
other cases were presen-ted to it-to clear its docket. The office of
the General Counsel is literally swamped witll work.'
This situation, in my opinion, is largely (but not wholly) the product
of a misplaced and legalistic ideal which led our administrative authorities
to pattern their work on the model of American court procedure.
They have assumed, almost unconsciously, that there is in each tax
case a precisely determinable legal liability, and that every disputed
point, to be decided rightly, must be finally decided by the Supreme
Court of the United States. In all this we are worshiping false gods.
In tens of thousands of income tax cases there is no precisely determinable
legal liability; and the income tax turns up new questions in
such volume that no system of courts could ever possibly decide them.
In this work we need less striving after ideally exact judicial interpretation,
and more appreciation of the bewildering subtlety and overwhelming
volume of the work to be done. We need to see that the
application of a complicated direct tax, calling for the annual assessment
of millions of taxpayers, is a wholesale job, and cannot be
conducted after the manner of a lawsuit; that a prompt-indeed, in
many cases an adva-nce-decision of disputed points better serves the
ends of justice than a procedure of protracted appeal. As the Treasury
report, from which I have already quoted, very cogently says: "The
collection of revenue is primarily an administrative and not a judicial
problem. As far as the federal income tax is concerned, a field of
administration has been turned into a legal battlefield."
While superficial idealism and unassimilated ideals are mischievouLs,
there is deep need and, fortunately, a growing place in taxation, for the
mind that seeks truth and the general, as opposed to the special, good.
As I have recently said elsewhere, self-interest is the dominant but
not the sole motive in taxation. The first impulse of a healthy human
being, when threatened with a tax, is to resist. But to resist successfully,
the individual must work in and with a group; and insensibly the
raw, egoistic impulse which first animated him is changed to a group
impulse, which accepts group standards and a group ethic. Individual
selfishness is profoundly modified by class selfishness, and in time the
latter may, and often does, change to something higher. The guiding
light frequently becomes social, or national, in its range. The greatest
good of the greatest number replaces "my good, and that of my class."
A sense of general equity, of fair play, of broad social policy is
awakened and plays a powerful part. Disinterested students of


### ---Economics-1928-0-07.txt---
economics and government assume roles of importance in the political
arena where taxes are made and unmade. Tax making rises above
what the war aviators called "a dog fight."

Tax-making is, accordingly, something better than a whirling battle
of jarring sects and factions, in which considerations of equity and
sound public policy are wholly lost to view. The great number of interests
at stake and the very complexity of the fight sweeten it. There
are so many issues that with respect to many of them, a majority of
legislators and voters are unaffected and disinterested; they may cast
their votes as a more or less disinterested jury. There are thus many
important tax problems which may be settled on the broad basis of
equity and sound public policy, if one is wise and ingenious enough to
find the right solution. Here, patient research and the disinterested
mind find wide scope for their beneficent service.
Federal tax laws in recent years have been profoundly influenced by
the Legislative Counsel of the House and Senate. These men have
striven with undeviating aim to write into law the will of Congress; but
in the many important technical matters which have so frequently, in
practice and effect, been left to their discretion, they have sought trulth
and even-handed justice with a tireless devotion, which is beyond adequate
praise. Or to take another illustration: the Secretary of the
Treasury and important members of Congress who could be named, have
repeatedly in recent years fought for tax measures which they knew at
the time were foredoomed to failure. They knew the efficacy of reiterated
enunciation of the sound but unpalatable truth.

The shallow sentimentalism of the parlor idealist and the narrow zeal
of the fanatical idealist, result in little good and much harm in the field
of taxation. But the work of those who serve with humility as well as
zeal the cause of truth and justice, counts mightily. The arm of the
enlightened tax officicil slackens when he is called upon to enforce tax
laws which conflict with his sense of equity. The natural opposition to
progressive taxation of the very wealthy-one of the powerful tax
groups to which I have alluded-is moderated and frequently overcome
by prevailing doctrines of equity and sound public policy, in the
creation of which economists and disinterested students play a most
important part. In the adoption of tax legislation there come zero
hours, when the zeal of the narrowly selfish flags. At that time the
apostle of the broader, deeper, and less popular truth gets his chance.
American tax laws contain not a few beneficent provisions traceable to
some tireless lobbyist for the public good.

The disinterested fiscal truth exercises, then, a real influence. Its
action is largely critical, negative, and indirect, but it is pervasive and
powerful. The truth is mighty, even though, from my limited experience,
I see no reason to believe that it will prevail.


### ---Economics-1928-0-08.txt---
Among other and conflicting dictionary definitions of the word
"ideal" one finds this: "a standard of desire; an ultimate object or
aim, a mental conception of what is most desirable." Are such ideals
helpful in the field of taxation?

My experience, I confess, has led me to distrust even such ideals,
attractive though they may be to the scholar or ambitious statesman.
Laissez-faire; the socio-political ideal of Adolph Wagner; capital accumulation
as seen by Ricardo; conscription of capital as advocated by
idealistic economists at the beginning of the war; or "work and save"
so confidently proclaimed in the years immediately following the warwhat
sorry and discredited pole-stars they are! Life's real economic
objectives are infinitely more subtle and lie infinitely beyond such proximate
stars, even if they be stars.

This I do believe: The world needs the economist's version of the
truth when it is fashioned after mature study. But let the economist
cherish no illusion that it will prevail; that belief is merely a bit of
intellectual arrogance with which the scholar quiets the growling of his
own particular form of inferiority complex. The economist's "truth"
is only one factor in the contest we call taxation. He little knows when
he launches it, on what side it will eventually fight, or in what unsuspected
ways and places it will count and tell. Wearing the white
armor of "science," it will fight side by side with grimy forces seeking
their own so-called selfish ends. It will emerge from the contest a
battered and a better truth. It will have gained from, as much as
it will have given to, its fellow contestants. It will have proved to be
no better and no holier than many of its fellows. It will have proved
more effective, the more completely its author-the economist-recognized
in advance its limitations, its functions, and the character of the
other contestants.

Contest is not oirly inevitable, but essential in the determination of
economic truth. There is no true political economy which does not
contemplate action. Thinking is only the beginning of wisdom; action
is essential to its consummation. The economist's "truth" as it emerges
from the closet, is largely hypothesis. It must be refined and tested in
the laboratory of life. The complete economist will have taken his part
in tax-making and have felt the buffeting of the game. He will have
done this not only as citizen and man, but as economist. True wisdom
cannot be purchased at a lesser price. Without it he may possibly be
a statistical or social scientist, but he can never be an economist in the
field of taxation.
 ## Economics-1929-0


### ---Economics-1929-0-01.txt---
Like most teachers of economic theory, I have found it quite worth
while to spend some time studying any particular problem in hand from
the standpoint of a socialist state. In fact I have more than once found
it profitable to work out, from that standpoint, a quite specific solution
of the problem in question-setting up as the proper criterion of
a sound solution that it should seem entirely reasonable in view of the
essential nature of a socialist state. Tonight, I am applying this
method of procedure to a very fundamental problem of any cooperative
economic order, that is, the problem embodied in this question: What
is the proper method of determining just what commodities shall be
produced from the economic resources at the disposal of a given community
?

Under the present economic order of free private initiative, the actual
decision as to what commodities shall be produced is made very simply.
First, on the basis of a vast complex of institutions, customs and laws,
the citizen adopts a line of conduct which provides him with a money
income of greater or less volume. Secondly, that citizen comes on the
market with said income demanding from those persons who have voluntarily
assumed the role of producers, whatever commodities, he, the
citizen, chooses. Thirdly, the producers promptly submit to the dictation
of the citizen in this matter, provided always that said citizen
brings along with his demand entire readiness to pay for each commodity
a price equal to the cost of producing that commodity. In the
case of a socialist state, the proper method of determining what commodities
shall be produced would be in outline substantially the same
as that just described. That is, the correct general procedure would
be this: (1) the state would assure to the citizen a given money income
and (2) the state would authorize the citizen toE spend that income as
he chose in buying commodities produced by the state-a procedure
which would virtually authorize the citizen to dictate just what commodities
the economic authorities of the state should produce.


### ---Economics-1929-0-02.txt---
This paper, taken as a whole, is a defense of the method of guiding
production in a socialist state which was just described. But that
defense really breaks into two parts. The first part is used in making
the direct defense, that is, in setting forth the specific reasons why that
method is essentially sound. The second part will be used to deal with
a subordinate problem, that is, a problem which would have to be solved
by the authorities before the plan for guiding production here advocated
could be followed. The specific nature of this subordinate problem
will be more easily brought out a little later.

So much for the two tasks with which we are to deal in this paper.
But, before starting upon those tasks, we must take a moment to explain
just what meaning will attach to the phrase "socialist state" as
used in this paper. A state so designated is here understood as being
one in which the control of the whole apparatus of production and the
guidance of all productive operations is to be in the hands of the state
itself. In other words, the state is to be the sole responsible producer,
that is, the sole person natural or legal who is authorized to employ
the economic resources of the community, its stock or income of primary
factors, in producing commodities. As such sole producer, the
state maintains exchange relations with its citizens, buying their productive
services with money and selling to them the commodities which
it produces.

I

Keeping in mind this conception of a socialist state, we must now take
up our first task, that is, the task of defending the proposition already
laid down that, in a socialist state, the proper method of determining
what commodities should be produced would be to assure each citizen
a money income and then to authorize that citizen to call on the state
to produce the particular commodities which he the citizen-wanted.
Here our first step must be to note some details which would be included
in our plan. In the first place, when we describe the proper method
of determining what commodities shall be produced as being a method
which begins by assuring to each citizen a certain money income, it is
of course assumed that said income is assured to the citizen only with
the proviso that certain conditions fixed by the state have been fulfilled.
Just what these conditions ought to be we must not take time to consider;
but, that conditions of some sort should be attached to the receiving
of an income cannot be questioned.

Another detail of our plan which is assumed is that, in determining
the money incomes to be conditionally assured to the citizens of a socialist
state, the authorities of such a state would have honestly and earnestly
endeavored to fix those incomes so that they represent that distribution
of the total income of the state which was called for in the interest


### ---Economics-1929-0-03.txt---
of citizens generally and of the group as an organic whole.
This socially correct system of incomes being assumed, it necessarily follows
that the judgments reached by citizens with respect to the relative
importances of different commodities would be virtually social judgments,
and the resulting commodity prices would be prices which expressed
the social importances of commodities.

A third specific provision which is assumed to be present in the socialist
plan for determining what commodities to produce is this: In
deciding whether or not to demand the production of a particular commodity,
the citizen must have before his mind just what price he would
be obliged to pay for that commodity. Such a provision would be indispensable,
since the citizen would not be able to reach a decision as
to whether or not he wanted to buy a given commodity, unless he had
before him the data necessary for comparing the desirability of said
commodity with the drain on his income which the buying of that commodity
would involve.

The last specific provision of the correct socialist plan for dealing
with our problem would be this: In fixing the selling price of any particular
commodity, the economic authorities would set that price at a
point which fully covered the cost of producing said commodity, and
those authorities would understand the cost of producing that commodity
to be the drain on the economic resources of the communityits
stock or income of primary factors-consequent upon producing
said commodity.

As the particular procedure brought out in the last sentence plays an
essential part in making the plan for guiding production advocated in
this paper the right plan, I must add here two or three comments.
First, by the phrase "primary factors" is meant those economic factors
of production behind which the economist does not attempt to go, for
example, the land itself; the water powers; the original raw materials
such as metallic ores; the different kinds of labor services, etc.
Again, by the phrase "effective importance" I mean the degree of
importance which is a resultant of the whole situation, particularly of
the generic importance of the factor in question and the quantity of it
available. Put in another way, the effective importance of anything is
that degree of importance which we should take into account in deciding
how to act. Thus, a man sitting beside a floiwing well has no occasion
to economize in the use of water; and so in this situation water
to him has no effective importance. To the same man, however, if temporarily
lost in the desert with his whole stock of water reduced to a
single quart, the utmost possible economy in the use of water would be
imperative; and the effective importance of his stock of water would be
beyond estimate.


### ---Economics-1929-0-04.txt---
A third comment needed here is that every one of these numerous primary
factors has its own particular degree or amount of effective importance
in the vast complex of productive processes in which it participates.
That effective importance of each primary factor is derived
from and determined by the importances of the innumerable commodities
which emerge from that complex of productive processes. Because the
effective importances of the commodities are expressed in terms of
money value, the importances of the several factors will be so expressed.
At present it will be assumed-to prove this assumption will be the task
of the second part of this paper-that the authorities of our socialist
state will have proved able to ascertain with a sufficient degree of accuracy
these effective importances or values of all the different kinds
of primary factors, and that they will have embodied the results in
arithmetic tables which I shall usually designate factor-valuation tables.
In order to determine the cost of producing any particular commodity,
let us say a sewing machine, it would be necessary to multiply the valuation
of each factor used in producing that machine by the quantity
of that factor so used and add together these different products. If
the resultant total turned out to be thirty dollars, we should have to say
that the producing of the sewing machine made a drain on the community'
s economic resources of thirty dollars; or, in other words, that
its resources-cost was thirty dollars.

I must not leave this matter of cost in a socialist state without remarking
that the kind of cost just explained, resources-cost, is in fact
very closely allied to what, under our system, is often called expensecost.
Indeed, a very good case can be made for the contention that,
in the present order, these two kinds of cost are essentially the same
thing, though capable of being looked at, and labeled, from two quite
different points of view. To the voluntary producer of our present
order, who must buy the factors which he uses to produce a sewing
machine, the thirty-dollar cost of producing that sewing machine is an
expense-cost. On the other hand, to the economist who believes that
the automatic working of competition gives to each primary factor a
price which expresses with sufficient accuracy the effective importance of
that factor in the productive process as a whole,-to him, that same
thirty-dollar cost presents itself as a resources-cost, a drain on society's
economic resources of thirty dollars.

So much as to the general character and the specific details of the
plan for determining what commodities shall be produced which I hold
to be the only right plan for a socialist state to adopt. I must now
take a few moments to argue for the soundness of the plan. In the
first place, the plan in its general outline is surely the one which should
be maintained in a socialist state. That is, (1) the state should determine


### ---Economics-1929-0-05.txt---
the money income of the citizen; and (2) the citizen should dictate
to the state what shall be produced in return for that income. The
former provision would insure that the interests of citizens generally
would not be sacrificed to the interests of particular individuals; the
latter provision would insure that the peculiarities of tastes and needs
characteristic of each individual would not be sacrificed to some standard
of consumption set up by an all-powerful state.

I have argued that the proposed plan for guiding the production of
commodities in a socialist state, viewed in its general outline, is essentially
sound. As respects the more specific provisions of that plan,
which I have enumerated, I shall pass by the first three as needing no
defense, and take up at once the fourth, which is the provision that the
authorities of our socialist state, in fixing the price to be paid by the
citizen for any particular commodity, ought to set that price at a point
which covered completely the cost of producing that commodity and
that said authorities ought to interpret the cost of producing a given
commodity to be its resources-cost, the drain on the community's store
or income of primary factors which resulted from producing a unit of
said commodity. Is this doctrine sound? Would it really be the correct
thing for the authorities to fix the selling price of any commodity
at cost in this sense?

To this question, the affirmative answer is surely the right one. A
single consideration is decisive: That price which equals resourcescost
is the only price which would be consistent with the income system
supposed to have been already decided upon. That system, we remember,
gives to each citizen a determinate money income to be employed
as he sees fit in buying commodities from the state. But, since substantially
all commodities which the citizen is permitted to buy, that is,
consumption commodities, have to be produced, the authorities of the
state, in deciding that a particular citizen shall have a certain money
income,-one, let us suppose, of two thousand dollars,-have thereby
virtually decided that said citizen shall have an incontestable claim upon
two thousand dollars' worth of the productive resources of the state;
and that proposition, in turn, means that said citizen shall have an
incontestable right to dictate to the economic authorities just what
commodities they shall produce from his two thousand dollars' worth
of the productive resources of the community. From this reasoning it
necessarily follows that the authorities could not consistently make the
selling-price of our hypothetical sewing machine greater than its resources-
cost of thirty dollars; since doing so would in effect reduce
the money income of the citizen interested, though it had previously
been decided that said money income was just what it ought to be. On
the other hand, it is equally evident that the authorities could not


### ---Economics-1929-0-06.txt---
consistently make the selling price of the sewing machine smaller than
its resources-cost of thirty dollars; since doing so would in effect increase
the income of the citizen interested, though, by hypothesis, that
income was already just what it ought to be.

II

In the preceding discussion, we have completed our main task, that is,
the task of defending that method of procedure which I have set up
as the only proper one to be followed by the authorities of a socialist
state in deciding what commodities to produce. In the course of that
discussion it has probably become sufficiently evident why it would be
necessary for the authorities of our socialist state to solve the so-called
problem of imputation, that is, the problem of ascertaining the effective
importance in the productive process of each primary factor. Without
that information, those authorities would manifestly be unable to compute
the resources-cost of any particular commodity; hence would be
unable to determine the correct selling price for that commodity; and,
consequently, would be unable to make use of the particular method of
determining just what commodities they ought to produce which, according
to the contention of this paper, is the only correct method.
But not only would it be necessary for the authorities of a socialist
state to solve this imputation problem as a prerequisite to the employment
of this particular method of guiding production, it is not unlikely
that more than one economist would question the possibility of solving
that problem at all under the conditions necessarily prevailing in a
socialist state. I seem called on, therefore, to give a few moments to
show that, in fact, the socialist authorities would find themselves quite
equal to this task.

The particular method of procedure which would seem most suitable
for dealing with this problem in the case of a socialist state is a form of
the so-called method of trial-and-error, that is, the method which consists
in trying out a series of hypothetical solutions till one is found
which proves a success.

As a necessary preliminary to the explanation of the process by
which the method of trial-and-error could be used to solve the imputation
problem, we must remind ourselves that at any particular time the
stock or income of each primary factor which was available for the
current production period would necessarily be a substantially determinate
quantity. Unless the available quantity of any factor was thus
determinate and at the same time so limited that its total was smaller
than the need for that factor, though it might be a factor of producion,
it could not be an economic factor, and so could not be one of
the factors with which we are concerned.


### ---Economics-1929-0-07.txt---
Now, setting out from this assumption that the quantity of any economic
factor which is available for any particular productive period
is substantially determinate, I shall assume that the authorities of our
socialist state, in trying to ascertain the effective importance of each
primary factor, would adopt the following procedure. (1) They would
set about constructing factor-valuation tables in which they gave each
factor that valuation, which, on the basis of much careful study, they
believed to be the nearest approximation to its correct valuation which
they could work out in advance of experience; (2) they would then proceed
to carry on their functions as managers of all productive operations
as if they considered the valuations given in their provisional
tables to be the absolutely correct valuations; (3) while thus acting,
they would after all keep a close watch for results which would indicate
that some of their provisional valuations were incorrect; (4) if such
results appeared, they would then make the needed corrections in the
factor tables, lowering any valuations which had proved too high, raising
any which had proved too low; (5) finally, they would repeat this
procedure until no further evidence of divergence from the correct
valuations was forthcoming.

I hardly need say that the crucial stage in the above procedure is
the third, that is, the stage during which the authorities would be on
the watch to discover one or more indications that some of the valuations
which they had put into the provisional tables were wrong-were
too high or too low. Here the all-important question is this: Is it
reasonable to expect that such indication would be forthcoming whenever
particular factor valuations actually were too high or too low? The
correct answer is surely an affirmative one. If, in regulating productive
processes, the authorities were actually using for any particular factor
a valuation which was too high or too low, that fact would soon disclose
itself in unmistakable ways. Thus, supposing that, in the case of a
particular factor, the valuation given in the provisional factor tables
was too high, that fact would inevitably lead the authorities to be
unduly economical in the use of that factor; and this conduct, in turn,
would make the amount of that factor which was available for the current
productive period larger than the amount which was consumed
during that period. In other words, a too-high valuation of any factor
would cause the stock of that factor to show a surplus at the end of
the productive period. If, now, we reverse our hypothesis and suppose
that the valuation of a particular factor which appeared in the factor
tables was too low, that fact would inevitably lead the authorities to
be too lavish in the use of that factor; and this conduct, in turn, would
result in making the amount of that factor available for the current
productive period smaller than the amount needed during that period


### ---Economics-1929-0-08.txt---
at the too-low valuation. In other words, a too-low valuation of any
factor in the tables would be certain to cause a deficit in the stock of
that factor. Surplus or deficit-one or the other of these would result
from every wrong valuation of a factor.

From the above analysis it seems certain that the authorities of our
socialist state would have no difficulty finding out whether the standard
valuation of any particular factor was too high or too low. And this
much having been learned, the rest would be easy. Those authorities
would now proceed to lower valuations which had proved too high and
raise those which had proved too low. Finally, they would have no
difficulty repeating this process until neither a surplus nor a deficit appeared,
when they would rightly conclude that the valuation which was
then attached to any particular factor correctly expressed the effective
importance of that factor. It follows that we can now feel assured that
said authorities would be able to compute the resources-cost of producing
any kind of commodity which the citizen might demand. But, since
the doubt on this point formed the principal ground for questioning the
soundness of the main contention of this paper, I find myself disposed
to affirm rather dogmatically that, if the economic authorities of a
socialist state would recognize equality between cost of production on
the one hand and the demand price of the buyer on the other as being
the adequate and the only adequate proof that the commodity in question
ought to be produced, they could, under all ordinary conditions,
perform their duties, as the persons who were immediately responsible
for the guidance of production, with well-founded confidence that they
would never make any other than the right use of the economic resources
placed at their disposal.
 ## Economics-1930-0


### ---Economics-1930-0-01.txt---
If the shoemaker is well-advised to stick to his last, the learned professions,
which in our day have inherited much of the medieval craftsman'
s ethics, may occasionally obey this precept. I may properly, therefore,
on this occasion make some random observations upon historical
records, the raw materials of my craft. Practically all the great variety
of records used by historians in general are also necessary to the economic
historian; and his technique in the use of these records is that
common to all historical criticism. But this branch of history has
chosen for its field that longitudinal section through the great mass of
material which is concerned primarily with economic activities and relationships.
Since the economic historian is vitally interested in the
past development of economic institutions and processes and their bearing
on present problems, he must also regard his work as a branch
of the science of economics. Fundamentally important, however,
as the economic factor appears to him, he does not regard it as the one
determining factor in human affairs past or present. Man does not
live by bread alone. And no active group of economic historians is
today making any such claim for the predominance of this specialism
as did the German "historical school," from Roscher and Hildebrand to
Schmoller.


### ---Economics-1930-0-02.txt---
The leaders of the "historical school" inevitably had to err by excess
of zeal in order to make their contribution in establishing the principle
of relativity; no longer can anyone proclaim, as did the Manchesterists
of the mid-nineteenth century, that free trade is a doctrine
eternally valid and universal in its application. The economic historian
of our time realizes that the problems, economic and social, which confront
us are much too complex and difficult to be understood by any
one-sided approach. The co6peration of every usable method is required;
and the critical method of history, emphasizing sequential relationships,
is one among several essential tools. Like the physical
sciences in their modern interlocking, the social sciences are borrowing
from one another both tools and workers.

The historical investigation of prices now being launched, with the
aid of a substantial grant from the Rockefeller Foundation, involves
such collaboration. This history of prices, including wages, from the
earliest fairly continuous records to that point, differing of course in
each country studied, where the various price series may be linked with
those in current statistical use, is to be carried on by scholars from
England, France, Germany, Austria, Spain, and the United States, under
the chairmanship of Sir William Beveridge. Within the next five
years, the establishment of long measures of price-changes in these
countries may be expected. It is hoped to document these more fully
and make them more reliable than was possible with those produced by
such pioneers, working single-handed, as Thorold Rogers, d'Avenel, or
Wiebe. Price records will be sought which are continuous for one locality
or for homogeneous market areas. Basic price series, thus set
up, may of course be combined to show larger regional or national
averages; but the totals will not conceal the divergent weightings of
different regional price levels. A uniform general plan will be followed,
including a careful reduction of the numerous local variations in weights,
measures, and coinage, so that some approximation may be miade to
international comparisons-a procedure of especial importance, for instance,
in studying the geographical dispersion of price-changes as the
great wave of the sixteenth-century price revolution spread from Spain
over Western Europe. By separating and comparing the various
groups of prices, new light may be cast on long-time changes in the
behavior of prices and on the effect of such changes upon the attitudes
and positions of great social groups of the population at successive
periods. The investigation will require not only the association of
scholars from the several nations selected, but also the close co6peration
of a number of workers in different fields, especially of historians, archivists,
economists and statisticians. When once this relatively dependable
causeway has been thrown over the morasses of earlier economic


### ---Economics-1930-0-03.txt---
history, we shall have greatly lengthened, though on a narrow front,
our statistical base-line, now so short.

But, happy as are the economic historians over this opportunity for
the improvement of their one possible long statistical measure, they
realize fully how imperfect their best efforts must leave it. For the
causeway will be very narrow, and at places badly broken. Even with
the cautious piecing together of much more material than has hitherto
been available, serious gaps and deficiencies in the historical record must
inevitably remain.

Although always aware of the serious deficiencies in all the records
upon which he is dependent, the historian, by reason of the requirements
of continuous narrative, usually fails to convey to the reader
the full meaning of this imperfection. Absence or scarcity of records,
often at vital points and over considerable spaces of time, is the most
obvious and distressing of handicaps. But continuously baffling is the
qualitative inadequacy of the material, its inherent and shifting biases,
even when, as in the most recent centuries of history, the volume of
records increases enormously. The rise of modern states and of centralized
governments resulted in an immense increase of paper-work and
the gradual organization of state archives, where there are housed and
prepared for use great collections of political, administrative, and
judicial documents. The invention of the printing press brought a flood
of books and pamphlets; and, by its help in making men literate, brought
forth new stacks of writings, private in character, to bless and to harass
the historian. To curse with Carlyle this Dryasdust accumulation, or to
wish that the multitude of men had remained voiceless, is inadmissible.
Instead, the crushing task is divided and subdivided by shorter periods
and narrower topics; but the increasing division of labor has not lessened
the most crucial difficulties.

This very defectiveness of the raw material of his craft has largely
determined and limited the method and aim of the historian. Historical
technique, higher criticism, interpretation amounting to interpolation,
what are they in the main but methods and practices of filling gaps and
correcting biases? History has sometimes been severed from the other
social sciences by limiting it to the peculiar function of describing the
unique occurrence. Some go so far as to assert that this function forever
debars it from any attempt at the comparisons, classifications and
generalizations which characterize a science. May it not be truer to
say that the consciousness of defective material and the consequent
hypertrophy of critical talent has tended at times to check the human
craving for synthesis? The wary historian, taught and teaching the
dangers of historical analogies, has tried to limit his professional risks;
but he is increasingly minimizing those risks. In our modern historical


### ---Economics-1930-0-04.txt---
studies a rough series of transitional forms may be traced between the
two poles of research, between the narrative of the individual sequence,
especially characteristic of political history, and the emerging science
which essays, by the comparative method, the discovery of the laws or
continuities of group action. There must be and must remain the
detailed description of the single specimen, the individual sequence.
The art of historical narrative will not die. But, as with the aid
of all the kindred social sciences, the records become more adequate
and their interpretation more penetrating, history, or rather some
branches of the craft, may approximate an historical sociology. The
interdependence of the sciences is already exhibited in the use which the
social historians, as well as the political scientists, are beginning to make
of statistics, or at least in the demand for training which will enable
them to check quantitatively their descriptive studies.
L. P. Namier's recent book on the structure of English politics at the
accession of George III is an example of this use of statistics. Despairing
of gaining fresh insights from the accustomed sources, such as the
gouty bon mots of Ihorace Walpole's letters, or the acrid outcries against
the nabobs, or the mutual diatribes of parties against the corruption
practised by opponents, Mr. Namier undertook the compilationa of a
card-index containing the fullest details, especially from local records,
family and local correspondence, concerning every member of the House
of Commons from 1760 to 1783. After years of this minute inquiry,
he has published this notable initial study. His text is shot through
with numerical tests of such problems as the extent of aristocratic influence
upon the representative system, or how much voting power was
exerted by the new wealthy class, or the weight of the Crown and Administration
in elections, or the supposedly prevalent corruption of the
electorate.

As each generation thus rewrites its history of the past-a proceeding
necessary because of defective records and because of the shifts
in selective interest and in the configuration of contemporary biasessome
of the gaps in the record become partially filled. But no amount
of research or tenable conjecture can eke out the most serious silences
of our sources. This is particularly true in certain fields of economic
bistory. Such institutional structures as the open field system, the
craft gilds, or the factory, which have left behind them a record of
customary regulations or external legislation, have, like the skeletal
forms of zo6logical species, deposited their fossils in the historical strata.
But the more dynamic elements, like the vital organs and the nervous
system, have tended to disappear. We can with considerable accuracy
reconstruct these economic institutions in what we may term their skeletal
form; but how and why they came into being, what animating forces


### ---Economics-1930-0-05.txt---
actuated them in their prime and gradually ebbed in their decline, are
questions not easy to answer from our materials.

Take, for a simple instance, the flow of trade as a formative influence
on industrial institutions. Of foreign commerce, its agents and carriers
and its extent, we have, for the pre-statistical period, some fragments
of information; but for local or domestic trade the material is
almost hopelessly inadequate. Very difficult and elusive is also the
study of past changes in the standards of living. The record of economic
history is therefore unevenly weighted, tempting us to stress successive
stages of production and to neglect the dynamic factors of distribution
and consumption.' Even our current statistical record is notably weak
on domestic trade, and the analysis, statistical and other, of the assumptions
underlying the demand curve is inadequate. We shall have
in 1930 the first national enumeration of the agencies and amounts of
market distribution; and this will be warmly welcomed by economists
for the help it may give at this much needed point.
But why should a busy world produce statistics for the delight of
economists? We are told that economists are a voracious species, greedy
for figures, only to be satisfied when census-takers and social psychologists
stand beside the remaining third of the working population. By
implication, we should be satisfied with the existing notable increase in
our equipment for economic and social measurement since the World
War. Nearly all the departments of the federal government are busy
turning out statistical tables in growing volume, but as yet too little
co6rdinated.

Numerous state, regional and local agencies are doing likewise. Trade
organizations, university research bureaus, independent institutes, private
investigators fill the country with questionnaires and statistical publications.
And still further plans for quantitative research, nation-wide
and local, are constantly emerging. Is not all this more than enough,
asks the business man? The economist answers with an emphatic negative.
Our modern world stands but at the threshold of the "statistical
period" for which the meager but gradually accumulating statistical
I Thorold Rogers had a naive habit of treating his hypotheses as facts. Hewitt's
study of medieval Cheshire records has recently shown up this foible. Rogers
first expressed doubt regarding Cheshire's medieval salt production, a commodity of
prime importance, and thereupon he converted the doubt into a flat denial. This bald
assertion was apparently based on the absence of Cheshire salt from the record of
price quotations. But Hewitt's researches (cf. H. J. Hewitt, Medieval Cheshire,
1929, pp. 108-112) make it evident that the Cheshire brine springs were continuously
worked and that, though the data in regard to distribution are very scanty, the
number of recorded salt-houses far exceeded the needs of local consumption. In other
words, the strata of the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries show plenty of skeletal
forms of production; but the evidence as to the considerable trade which created them
was never recorded or has almost vanished.


### ---Economics-1930-0-06.txt---
records of the pre-war century formed merely the initial and preparatory
stage. We are far from the saturation point of supply; and the
demand is unappeased.

This quite modern craving for exact knowledge of economic and social
institutions and processes is a definite symptom of the advent of a
new historical era, which was ushered in toward the last quarter of
the nineteenth century by a definite reaction against the regime of
unfettered, individualistic, secretive competition. Urgent social need,
felt a century earlier in Western Europe and in the regions within its
radiating influence, had unleashed the individual, long straining for free
activity; and this release in turn had stimulated the demand for ever
more intense production. The world witnessed an unrivalled outburst
of industrial energy, an unprecedented movement of migration, an age
of unexampled magnitudes and speeds. The spurt of initiative was assisted
by a new theory and a resulting policy, in law and economicsrationalistic,
hedonistic, individualistic, and dogmatic-which, with the
clear-cut certitude of a new faith, enforced the destructive but energizing
work of liberalism. But, unfolding with an inner logic of growth, out
of the older order emerged fresh forces and institutions. Protectionism,
with tariffs facing outward and dikes of combination crossing inwardly,
restrictionism in its various aspects, including its check on the free
flow of immigration, and nationalism in intensified forms-with intercluded
social cooperative organizations-were among the manifestations
of the new spirit. But meantime, with the growing complexity of
the social situation, new concepts of relativity, of evolutionary adaptation,
and of social solidarity were steadily undermining the former certainties
of an automatic, mechanical, predestined harmony. The altered
pattern of men's thinking, even though, or perhaps because, it
was accompanied by a sense of fluidity, has reinforced the dominant demand
for stability and social controls.

The need for wisely adapted and therefore more effective controls
underlies the craving for more statistical knowledge. If we are to have
better social controls, we must have records, many more of them, and
more men trained to interpret and to use them. The historians, especially
the economic historians, have a peculiar reason for their intense
interest in this momentous process of transition going on in our
own day. A study of operating social forces in a period of change will
yield not strict parallels, but insights and understandings of those earlier
operations which have left so impermanent a record. One of the many
interesting phenomena which mark such a period as ours, is the realignment
of public opinion. Who could have foretold in 1890 the change
in sentiment which made possible the consolidation provisions of the
Transportation act of 1920? Yet we can find repeated instances in


### ---Economics-1930-0-07.txt---
the past of such almost unconscious refigurement of the public mind,
as, for example, the change in opinion in England on the inclosure movement
between the sixteelnth and the eighteenth centuries. At times, the
great changes are initiated and carried on almost unperceived by those
who are themselves making them. Common use and wont is one of the
greatest enemies of the historical record; for ordinarily those gradual,
day-by-day changes in attitude of mind in which multitudes participate
are not observed and recorded. New concepts are diffused and slip
noiselessly into men's minds; they nestle down beside older alien concepts,
often without noticeable j ostling; new practices resulting therefrom
silently emerge or old ones quietly drop away, until at some point, the
preparation becoming far advanced, the new face of the world becomes
manifest with apparent suddenness, and the historian, casting about even
to set a date to this revolution, discovers another gap in the historical
record.

There is strong reason, therefore, at this particular juncture not
only to study attentively those hidden things which lie upon the surface
of the present, but to collect and preserve the commonplace documents
of the immediate past. Already the Business History Society is concerned
with the collection, preservation, and utilization of business documents,
not merely by its Boston headquarters, but by local historical
societies generally and especially by university and business school
libraries. Such documents as account books, letter files, reports and
other records of individual concerns, corporations, and trade associations,
above all the long-run series which for a time have been heaped in
storerooms and then destroyed, should now be preserved, sorted and
organized for study. Many of them may be had for the asking, some
under pledge of confidence for a certain number of years. What would
we not now give for a large accumulation of such material, say from Antwerp
of the sixteenth century, or from Lancashire of the eighteenth, to
add to such few documents as we possess! Yet we still permit similar
records, precious at least to our successors, to be destroyed by hundreds
of tons daily.

Towards meeting our own needs and answering our own questions
we can do something; and while we cannot imagine what questions our
successors will put to our time, nevertheless we must build for them as
well as for ourselves. It is tempting at times to meditate upon our
successors. Perhaps, two or three centuries hence, the highly trained
economists in what may at that date correspond to the Domestic Commerce
Division of the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, at
Washington, may be preparing, from the great flow of current information
coming daily from all parts of the country, that perpetual inventory
of consumable resources, that delicately adjusted economic


### ---Economics-1930-0-08.txt---
indicator which will promptly measure and thus help to regulate the
fluctuations of business and government enterprise. They may, in their
historical section, be reporting on such imperfect but hopeful beginnings
as we are making in our statistical laboratories, our surveys of economic
and social changes, and our Presidential conferences. But we cannot
imagine what kind of ordered world these our successors will be living
in, or how far in the rhythm of hiistory the existing tendency to control
and stability may be carried. Will they still be discovering new merits
in the medieval ideals of the just price and of equality of social opportunity?
Or will a reaction have set in against an over-development of
the planned national economy and its neo-cameralistic economics?
However uncertain the future, of one thing we imay now be fairly sure;
as the tides of world history are now moving, each ebb and flow enlarges
progressively the knowledge obtainable from the human record. From
the imperfections of the social sciences will ultimately emerge more perfect
guides to social controls.
 ## Economics-1931-0


### ---Economics-1931-0-01.txt---
To the economist conflict is neither a new nor a strange phenomenon.
Very early in human history man learned that he could eat bread only
by the sweat of his face, and the lesson thus learned was rephrased by
the early economists into the doctrine that labor is the price of all economic
goods.

Man's first struggle was with the earth itself which grudgingly yielded
him a living; but this earthy contact gave him like Antaeus new strengtb
for the conflict. Man soon discovered, however, that his was not the only
species which depended for its existence upon the produce of the soil.
Only by an unceasing struggle with other forms of animal life could
human beings obtain a portion of the food and other resources which
nature dispensed impartially but with a sparing hand. So strenuous and
persistent has been this struggle for survival between man and otlher
organisms that a prominent entomologist has only recently declared that
it is still uncertain whether in the contest between the human and the
insect species it will be man who will survive.

Somewhere in the age-long struggle man discovered that conflict need
not always end in the destruction of the defeated party. His own


### ---Economics-1931-0-02.txt---
chances of survival were improved when he compromised with some of
his adversaries and even sought their co6peration in waging war on the
more unrelenting and destructive of their mutual enemies. Such compromises
and alliances were, of course, most likely to take place with human
beings themselves, and born of such toleration and alliances came
some of our earliest social groupings. Not all groups were formed witll
economic ends in view; but, whenever mutual aid could be secured by a
specialization of functions and a division of labor within the group, a
continuation of the tolerant attitude was most likely to result.
Conflict, it is to be noted, did not cease even within the group; but it
took on a more creative and less destructive form. Under the name
of competition it came to be thought of as a stimulating and constructive
force in human society; and among economists by the time of Adam
Smith competition was believed to be wholly beneficial. It was thought,
indeed, that it might even be relied upon as a sufficient regulator of man's
conduct in the world of commerce and industry.

If today we have ceased to accept the naYve argument that competition
is wholly a stimulating, never a destroying, force in our economic
life, it is not because we do not believe that competition can be made to
serve in the stimulating way in which Smith and his followers contended
that it would act. When it fails, it is because the competitors do not
possess equal strength and foresight and the stronger and more foresighted
are likely to insist that their individual interests are those of the
group. The weaker members are then obliged to combine in order to
restrain competition and prevent it from destroying both itself and them.
Such restraints are most frequently obtained by enlisting the support of
organizations based on non-economic motives, especially that of the
State whose functions are not only political but which usually represents
in its governing policy the ethical notions prevailing at the time. It is
not, therefore, through a cessation of conflict that unfair economic
competition is checked but by bringing into play another form of competition
that the equilibrium is restored.

While we may readily admit that economic competition needs at times
to be controlled in its own interest, that is, in order to preserve that
freedom which is its very foundation stone, it is equally true that economic
forces are at times called upon to preserve society from modes of
conflict which have their origin in other than economic motives, where
the struggle is more harmful and unless checked will completely destroy
the weaker contestants. More than once has the economic boycott
been resorted to by nations which were weak in armed forces to check the
aggressive political ambitions of their more warlike neighbors. Such
boycotts may have proved ineffective in restraining for any long time
the purchase of the offending commodities; but they have usually produced


### ---Economics-1931-0-03.txt---
sufficient fear among the producers to lead to a clamorous demand
that their own government reverse its policy.

The history of mankind has shown that ethnological, political and
even ecclesiastical societies are likely, when unchecked, to be more tyrannical
in their treatment of their defeated adversaries than are groups
formed to carry on the economic struggle. It is seldom that individuals
or associations pursuing economic ends push an advantage which they
have gained over their competitors to the point of complete destruction.
High prices may for a time yield high profits, but they will ultimately
destroy purchasing power or call forth substitutes. Low wages may be
reluctantly accepted but they do not secure the full productive capacities
of the workers. Competition among producers does not often take that
cut-throat form which results in the extinction of some of them but is
more likely to end in an agreement between, if not a complete merger of,
the competitors. The prudent creditor is one who hesitates to force
his debtor into bankruptcy.

It is perhaps some dim recognition of the fact that the economic conflict
is seldom destructive in its consequences that has led nations, when
political or racial antagonisms have produced an impasse, to call in the
international banker or the business man of large affairs to poin-L a way
out of the difficulties. Such men have learned, sometimes by experience,
more often by observation, that in competition it is well not to push an
advantage too far. They have also perceived that international strife,
while it may bring large and quick returns to the war profiteer, seldom
brings lasting advantages to the well-established business, especially if
that business is in part dependent on the international market as an
outlet for its goods.

War, while primarily a military and political conflict, cannot be kept
out of the economic arena. Trading with the enemy becomes a disloyal
act; the property and the patent rights of enemy aliens are sequestered;
blockades interfere with the trade of even neutral nations; moratoria
are declared which relieve the debtors from the importunities of their
creditors, and trade is diverted from its usual channels. Worst of all,
the war is likely to leave in its wake impoverished peoples who for years
and even decades will be weak and uncertain purchasers of domestic as
well as foreign goods. If Adam Smith was right in his belief that merchants
and manufacturers have a better knowledge of their own interests
than have other classes, we may safely conclude that big business interests,
other than the manufacturers of imunitions, will be more likely to
throw their influence in behalf of international peace than will those
persons who have less at stake and who, for that reason, are more likely
to give their passions and prejudices free rein. The pecuniary instinct
is not one of the noblest of human attributes but it is more subject to


### ---Economics-1931-0-04.txt---
compromise than are some of the other incentives to human conduct.
Accordingly, men who are governed by the desire for gain are more likelv
to find it to their interest to seek some other way out of an economic
contest than that which leads to armed conflict. If we may be permitted
to parody one of Smith's famous passages we may say: it is not from
the benevolence of the business and financial magnates that we expect
peace to be maintained but from their regard to their own interest.
In these post-war days when the recollection of the destructiveness of
the last war is still fresh in our minds and governments are being urged
to leave no stone unturned to prevent a renewal of conflict; when nations
are pledging themselves to renounce war as an instrument of international
policy; when conferences for naval reduction and for the settlement
of reparation difficulties are causing alternating hopes and disappointments
in the minds of those who have the will to peace, it is possible
that those mieetings less heralded whose determinations are often
concealed from the public, which the representatives of private business
corporations frequently hold to settle such problems as the control over
fuels, power and raw materials and the division of the world's markets
for certain commodities, are doing more to lay the foundations of international
peace than are the more spectacular efforts of our statesmen.
In spite of much which has been written in support of the widely-held
opinion that economic causes are those most often responsible for war,
this view of the matter seems to have been greatly exaggerated and is
contrary to that held by the sociologists who have given most attention
to the subject of conflict. The struggle to comnmand industrial resources
or markets may indeed produce friction among nations and powerfully
support other motives for war, but economic differences taken by themselves
are more likely to be settled by peaceable means than are international
disputes arising from other motives.

It is not the contention of this paper that international economic
competition is self-regulating; that it can be relied upon to prevent
war through the national self-interests involved, any niore than the selfinterests
of individuals can be expected to check exploitation of the weak
by the strong. Some government action will probably always be necessary
to check monopolistic price-making by international combinations
as it has been required to limit the efforts to create domestic monopolies.
But the claim is here made that international competition within the
economic sphere is less dangerous and less likely to be destructive than
are racial and cultural conflicts. Furthermore, it is claimed that the
economic struggle among nations is itself a force which makes for international
peace.

It is true that at times certain governments have given their support
to the forces of monopoly at work in their own dominions, when such


### ---Economics-1931-0-05.txt---
monopolies are in control of resources which are the exclusive possession
of the country in question, and have sought to limit the production or
export of the monopolized commodities. In such cases the government
is either sharing in the ownership and control of the monopoly, or is
endeavoring to obtain revenues by taxation of its profits. Such seems
to have been the situation in the Chilean nitrate and iodine export trade,
in the German potash industry and in the case of the Japanese camphor
monopoly. Similar controls by government, exercised perhaps for more
pardonable reasons but with less satisfactory results, have taken place
in the marketing of Brazilian coffee and crude rubber from British
colonial plantations. But the likelihood of a failure in the case of a
government monopoly which is dependent upon the international market
is much greater than in the case of that of a private corporation. Both
private and government monopolies run the risk of stimulating the search
for substitutes for the monopolized commodity; but a government
monopoly which undertakes to favor domestic producers over foreign
purchasers is bound to create resentment on the part of other governments.
In such case the threat of retaliation is often sufficient to prevent
unfair discriminations or unreasonably high prices.
Students of international affairs are for the most part agreed that
the present-day struggle between nations to secure or retain control
over such commodities as petroleum, rubber, copper and certain other
minerals is more likely to lead to international conflict than are national
efforts to secure markets for manufactured goods. If the chances of
war are to be reduced to a minimium, it is evident that some plan must
be devised whereby the world's supplies of these present-day necessities
can be made available to those producers who can make the best use of
them.

Of the nations which have been most insistent in their efforts to have
established a free world market for the purchase of the raw materials
for manufacture, one is Italy, which has very few of such resources.
Another is the United States, which possesses an abundance of many of
the most important minerals and basic materials for manufactures but
which is, nevertheless, dependent on outside sources for such things as
rubber, long-staple cotton, manganese, nickel, chromium, tin ore, raw
silk, pulp wood, sisal and potash, all of which are either not produced
at all in this country or in quantities insufficient to meet the needs of our
manufactures. The plea for an open market for raw materials may
seem, therefore, to be peculiarly an American one. Certain foreign nations
which have been restricting the export of raw materials found
within their dominions have not hesitated to call attention to the apparent
inconsistency of the American demand for a free market in which
to purchase supplies with our insistence that our own market must be


### ---Economics-1931-0-06.txt---
kept for our own manufacturers. American manufacturers have also
been inclined to think that their facilities for mass production and perhaps
unusual talents for conducting large-scale industrial operations
will give them an advantage in markets outside this country if they
can only secure their raw materials without obstacles being placed in
their way. However, it is well to remember that the recent activities
of the Dutch Shell Oil interests and of the Swedish Match Trust do not
lend credence to the notion that the United States has a monopoly of
business leadership.

International action of some sort would seem to be called for to bring
about a fair distribution of fuels, foodstuffs, power and raw materials;
and it is to the growth of power in the League of Nations or in some
other centralized authority in international affairs that we must hopefully
look for the future exercise of such authoritative control of distribution.
At present the League lacks the delegated authority and also
the means to make its findings effective and its decisions binding on its
own members, to say nothing of those nations outside the League whose
support is certainly necessary for any effective international control of
natural resources. As long as this situation continues, it seems obvious
that little more can be done by the League than to collect and make
public, statistical and other information as to the location and approximate
extent of these natural resources, how they are being utilized by
the nations which hold possession, and what obstacles, if any, exist, to
their full development and fair distribution. Something more can be
accomplished through the formulation by world economic conferences of
the principles which, in the minds of the delegates, should govern the
actions of the various nations when they are faced with this problem
of the control and distribution of raw materials. Such principles having
been formulated and adopted, the League can then urge their ratification
by its members in the hope that other than League members will
see the justice and wisdom of following the same policy.
Important as is this work of creating standards of conduct among
the nations, the process of education, by which the adoption of a universal
code of ethics is assured in matters in which national self-interests
seem so diverse from the ideals which a consideration of international
welfare would establish, is bound to be a slow one. If this is all that we
can depend upon to prevent wars arising from economic causes, we may
well despair of the attainment of international peace until the arrival
of the millenium. We have not had to wait, however, for the growth of
a world-power, which shall give force to international agreements covering
the exploitation of the natural resources when industrial progress
makes necessary their development. Capitalistic enterprises have made
their own bargains with the governments within whose dominions lie these


### ---Economics-1931-0-07.txt---
undeveloped resources. National prides and national animosities have
hindered but not prevented this exploitation. The need of undeveloped
or impoverished nations for revenues and the lack of sufficient capital
for the development of their own resources have induced industrially
backward nations to make bargains with and grant concessions to private
corporations for the purchase or lease of forest, mineral and other
lands within the boundaries of which the desired resources are supposed
to lie. Railways have been built, mining shafts sunk, oil wells driven and
plantations developed when necessary for the development of the resources
acquired, and even the native population has shared to some extent
in the prosperity brought by outside capital.

Economic conflict arises when other capitalistic enterprises, perhaps
under the control of othier nations, begin to develop similar resources
within the same country or perhaps in another part of the world and the
competing interests begin to place their products on the world market.
Then price wars follow which may be severe while they last, especially if
resources have been over-developed and not all the products can be
sold at profitable prices. In the old days of the chartered trading companies,
the conflict would have taken on a military aspect, for the charters
of the different companies would have authorized them to raise
armies, build fleets and to wage war, as did the British, Dutch and French
East India companies when they struggled to gain control of the accumulated
wealth of the Indies. But in the present era the industrial
and trading corporations do not possess the authority or the resources
to wage war. They are now accustomed to look to the governments of
their own countries to protect their interests. However, it is just this
combination of private and political agencies for the purpose of acquiring
or retaining control of natural resources and markets in regions
where foreign capital is engaged in the exploitation of such resources
which presents the greatest possibilities of war. The diplomatic efforts
of our own government to prevent other than American capitalists from
participation in the work of developing the natural resources of countries
in the Caribbean area have been especially disturbing in their effects on
the creation of a feeling of international good will and have made our
professions of a desire to see the open-door policy maintained elsewhere
seem insincere. It is a fair question whether a hands-off policy on the
part of governments which are sincere in their claims that they are not
pursuing imperialistic policies, and a limitation of their interference
to a dignified but strongly-worded protest against unwarranted attacks
mnade on their nationals who have invested their capital abroad would
not in the end create a better international feeling and afford more
protection to capital than do naval demonstrations or the threats of
military interference.


### ---Economics-1931-0-08.txt---
War is a costly and uncertain means of retaining control of economic
resources in distant lands. A more effective means is that of international
capitalistic combination. There are few countries which actually
exclude foreign capital from participation in domestic enterprises although
some countries forbid alien ownership of land or impose special
restriction upon the exploitation of their natural resources. The laws
which seek to control international monopolies seldom make any distinction
between national and international combinations of capital.
Hence it has become increasingly popular, especially since the World
War, for international combinations to be formed to secure concessions
for the development of industrial resources when large capital investments
are required. If, as usually happens, the capital investments in
such combinations come from several or many countries, such nations
have thereby given hostages for the preservation of peace.
There is neither time nor need in this paper to give a description of
these international combinations or even to recite their names. Most of
us know in at least a general way of the European iron and steel cartels,
of the combinations which have been formed in the potash, fixed nitrogen,
dye and artificial silk industries, of the Swedish-American match trust,
of the agreements or attempted agreements in the oil, sugar, rubber and
copper industries. Some of these agreements or combinations have been
formed to prevent over-production or to stabilize prices, it is true; but
the point here emphasized is that every one of these comnbinations, agreements
or pooling arrangements marks a shifting of conflict from the
political to the economic sphere and, to the extent to which this takes
place, lessens the likelihood of war between the nations.
Generally speaking, it may be said that capital knows neither national
nor race distinctions. Given equal security, it works as willingly for
Jew as for Gentile, for Catholic as for Protestant, for the yellow race
as for the Caucasian. Political governments having assumed certain
attitudes or made certain pronouncements find it very difficult to yield
the positions thus taken. The national pride is at stake and statesmen
and diplomats are hard put to it to find new formulas which seem to
adhere to the old attitudes while in reality they adopt new ones. But
economic statesmen have no such embarrassments. Economic life is by
its very nature subject to change. New forces make their appearance
which call for new methods of solving commercial and industrial problems.
Policies which for a time have succeeded but which have lost vigor
are sacrificed as quickly and as ruthlessly as are old machines or old
stocks of goods. For this reason it will usually be found to be the part
of wisdom for governments to interfere as little as possible with the
international flow of capital and with the financial and industrial arrangements


### ---Economics-1931-0-09.txt---
which are made for its investment and management except
to protect their citizens against monopolistic price policies.
Industrial leaders are at times unable to solve the problems which
arise from excessive competition, as we know from recent failures to
agree on a policy of restricted production by the oil, steel, sugar, and
rubber interests; but in these cases competition is always at work to bring
about an agreement later when the failure to agree means continued overproduction
and unprofitable prices.

It must not be forgotten that the policy of laissez-faire was first
announced and subsequently developed in the field of international trade
and while the intervening years have witnessed many departures
from it by the nations of the world, economists in general have continued
to give it their support within this sphere of action. Attacks upon the
principle have for the most part been made when its extreme advocates
have sought to justify it as a regulating force in the struggle between
labor and capital or that between producer and consumer. In the field
of international economics the striiggle is not likely to be less intense,
but it will be short-lived; and it may well serve as a satisfactory substitute
for international conflicts of a more sanguinar'y nature.
 ## Economics-1932-0


### ---Economics-1932-0-01.txt---
In 1763 the British government issued the Royal Proclamation which
forbade English colonists to settle west of the Allegheny mountains
except by special permission, a prohibition which stirred the ill will of
men of Massachusetts and Virginia alike and contributed to the creation
of the growing discontent which finally culminated in the Revolution.
But even before that event the paper frontier thus set up had been
crossed by roving individuals and by bands of adventurous men who
settled in the forbidden territory. And after the treaty of peace between
Great Britain and the new republic, no obstacle prevented the westward
movement except physical barriers and the resistance of the Indians.
Neither of these was able to stem the resistless surge of restless settlers
as they pressed on into the valley of the Ohio and the land to the south.
The fortunate purchase of the Louisiana territory opened up new vistas
and led to the later wresting of coveted California from a weaker neighbor.
Now the only limit to the westward movement was the Pacific Ocean,
and within seventy-five years from the Revolution, this had been reached.
It is perhaps incorrect to speak of this process of filling up the land
with settlers as pushing back the frontier, for in the changing kaleidoscopic
picture there were many frontiers. There was the trappers' and
fur traders' frontier, far beyond the fixed habitations of men, a fluctuating
and retreating line which followed the disappearing fur-bearing
animals tinto the northwest and southwest, and then leaped the intervening
distances to the far west. The ranchers' frontier existed first
along the western fringe of the early colonies, but was pressed ever farther


### ---Economics-1932-0-02.txt---
west by the home-making husbandmen who fenced in the range and
plowed up the pasture land. The picturesqueness of this phase of frontier
life has given to the cowboy an importance in story and literature
which he never possessed in real life. Today there remain only a few
faded remnants in out-of-the-way places of the fast-riding ranchers.
The miners' frontier on the whole moved westward, but it knew no
law and jumped from one new mining district to another, zigzagging
in drunken fashion from Pennsylvania coal and iron to Missouri lead
and to Michigan copper, taking a flying leap to California when gold
was discovered there, but jumping back to Pennsylvania to exploit the
petroleum deposits. Then the precious metals called again to Colorado
and Nevada, and the much more useful iron beckoned to Minnesota.
Such a frontier cannot be neatly mapped and charted, but it had such
distinctive features that the mining camps have given flavor and picturesqueness
to our literature and geographical nomenclature.

The true westward movement was carried on by the farmers. It was
they who filled up the open spaces, took over the land, built homes and
other improvements, and steadily pushed back the border of settlement.
The rapidity and scope of this movement were unprecedented in history.
In the single decade 1870-1880 there were added to the cultivated area
of the United States over 190,000,000 acres, or a territory equal in extent
to Great Britain and France combined, while in the following twenty-
year period 1880-1900 the farm area was increased by 305,000,000
acres. This was equal in extent to the rest of Europe, excepting Spain.
In 1890 the Superintendent of the Census announced that the frontier
had disappeared. Defining the frontier as an area where the population
was less than two per square mile, he presented figures in the census of
that year to show that the population was everywhere more dense than
that minimum, and therefore concluded that the land was now solidly
settled from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean, and that the last frontier
had been eliminated from our history. This was a statement of profound
significance, for it presaged the end of free land, the lure of
which had dotted the western plains with homesteaded farms; and it indicated
that the great task of the American people-that of subduing a
continent to the uses of man-was now completed.

But was the Superintendent of the Census correct in claiming that
the frontier had disappeared?

Whatever may have been true of the physical advance of the population
and the appropriation and exploitation of the public domain, it is
clear to us today as we look back to the decade of the 1890's that in
many respects and in many branches of human achievement the frontier
had only been visioned, but not conquered. This was the decade of bitter
debate and serious struggle over the establishment of the gold standard,


### ---Economics-1932-0-03.txt---
when the pioneers of sound money and good banking began through two
decades to push their toilsome way to the frontiers of the federal reserve
system. New frontiers of large-scale manufacturing, of mechanized
industry, of more efficient mass production for the ever enlarging markets
were glimpsed at this time; and far-sighted leaders began the reorganization
of industry which led them far beyond the former bounds.
A new horizon of foreign trade was opened up and the expansion of
our commerce was limited only by the failure of world demand. Somewhat
more tardily, the next decade saw new frontiers pushed out in intensive
farming, in conservation, and in other phases of the more scientific
development of our resources.

But still other frontiers remained, less tangible and material, which
in the early nineties were only faintly seen afar off. The Philadelphia
Exposition of 1876 revealed to the American people for the first time
on any large scale new values of art in its various forms, higher standards
of architecture, and a better appreciation of beauty. And, although
the world smiled at midwestern pretensions to culture, Chicago pushed
forward the frontiers of artistic, musical, and literary appreciation and
production both geographically and spiritually by her World's Fair in
1893. Since then the borders of this province have been extended rapidly
and steadily westward until the frontier has disappeared. It is difficult
to estimate achievement in this sphere, for no unit of measurement
exists; but, if we adopt the yardstick of the Superintendent of the
Census, we may fairly assert that today probably no place can be found
in the United States whose artistic, literary, or musical population is
less than two to the square mile.

This process of pushing out the frontiers of material achievement
inevitably affected the estimation in which some cultural values were
held. Economic success was rated higher than classical learning, and
the skill of the artisan counted for mnore than that of the artist. But
who shall say what scale of values should obtain on the frontier with
more authority than the frontiersman himself? Gradually, however, the
physical frontier was overcome; and, with material success assured,
the pioneer hungered for some of the less tangible goods he had left
behind. The transformation of the raw prairie into seemly homes and
beautiful cities was not accomplished in a decade or even in a generation.
Many a sprawling untidy western city today attests the difficulty of
such change. And yet in time roads and railways, mail route and telegraphs
and telephones, court-houses and parks, motion picture palaces
and chain stores, and all the other accompaniments of American civilization
have been set up along Main Street.

Some there always were among the early pioneers who appreciated
the value of higher education and who were not content merely to transform


### ---Economics-1932-0-04.txt---
Main Street into Broadway. These men were ready to make sacrifices
to establish schools and churches and to set up the symbols of a
higher culture. The democratic co-educational state university, a typically
western institution, was devised by the pioneers as an answer to
the demand for opportunities for general higher education. Thus the
frontier of learning closely followed, and was all but coterminous with,
the physical frontiers of settlement and material success. Its conquest
was marked by the establishment of schools and colleges, of libraries,
art museums, and conservatories of music, beautiful homes and wellplanned
cities, all of which may be accepted as manifestations of civilization.


Human advance is never even along all lines; it moves more rapidly
in certain directions and more slowly in others. In some aspects progress
consists in conquering nature, in appropriating her fruits, and in harnessing
natural forces to our needs; but in other aspects it means adaptation
to the environment. The westward movement partook of both. The
need of the times was on the whole for men of action, and for the tasks
to be performed strong men were bred. At other times in the world's
history, other needs and ideals have been paramount, and society has
responded in kind. In the twelfth century man wished to be a crusader;
in the sixteenth a buccaneer; in the eighteenth an empire builder; in the
nineteenth an industrial leader; and in the twentieth a scientist.
Although we have in 300 years pushed back somewhat the frontiers
of agriculture and industry, of culture and learning, we have only comparatively
recently essayed the task of scientific adventuring. And in
spite of splendid achievements in the fields of the physical and biological
sciences, we have probably-if the picture of our westward movement
may be applied-scarcely done more than cross the Appalachian Mountains.
If we consult the leaders in these sciences, we learn indeed of
significant discoveries and great progress, but also of major problems
still awaiting solution. Let me submit a few random samples from some
of the important sciences.

It is a trite observation to remark that our present industrial advance
has been due primarily to technological improvements, and that
society today depends as never before upon the application of science
to industry. Anyone who has attempted to follow the recent epoch-making
contributions, especially of the physical sciences, cannot but be
deeply impressed by the enormous range and advance of scientific invention
and discovery within the last five decades. When Bell and Edison,
the Wright brothers, Pupin and Millikan first looked out upon
the field of scientific endeavor it must have seemed to them that they
stood on the verge of the frontier. But owing to the work of these and
other men that border has been steadily extended. The heavens have


### ---Economics-1932-0-05.txt---
been immeasurably widened; remote stars have been descried, measured,
weighed, and analyzed. The earth has shrunk in size and importance
as it has been assigned a relatively inconspicuous place in a greater
cosmos. New elements have been discovered, and the forces of nature
have been captured and harnessed to man's uses. But we remain still
on the threshold of the universe.

A generation or two ago the physicist was one of the most cocksure
of our scientific colleagues; today he is the most humble. New vistas
of knowledge have been opened up to him, on the frontier of which
he now stands. He has learned to utilize the force of electricity, but remains
perplexed before the movements of the electrons in their courses
within the atom. In the field of metallurgy he has discovered, if not new
metals, at least new combinations that have given the lightness with
strength which make possible the ever-longer flights of airplanes, the
hardness that is necessary for an automobile crankshaft, and the brightness
which is found in the trimmings of even the cheapest era. And yet
in this very domain, which he had apparently exploited so thoroughly,
the metallurgist and engineer finds himself on the frontier of new scientific
knowledge. "What is cohesion?" asked Sir Oliver Lodge. "Why,
when I pick up one end of my walking stick, does the other end come
up too?" The honest physicist answers that he does not know. He may
talk about attraction among atoms, but that is merely giving a name
to the unknown. The essential nature of cohesion is still a matter of
speculation.

Our material civilization today is based primarily upon the utilization
of power, most of which is derived from the stores of coal and oil which
are rapidly being depleted if not exhausted. But at almost every stage
the processes of production and utilization are still woefully wasteful.
In the present state of the exploitation of petroleum about three-fourths
of the oil remains in the soil. The recovery of the balance is a standing
challenge to science. In the case of coal the amount recovered varies according
to conditions; in the bituminous mines of Illinois only about
half of the coal is brought to the surface. Even more wasteful is the
utilization of oil and coal for power or heating. In spite of the continuous
improvement of the steam engine, or its replacement by the turbine or
gas motor, the ominous fact still confronts us that the greater part of
the energy derived from the combustion of the coal and oil is wasted.
The science of getting the maximum out of a pound of coal is still in its
infancy. It is true that great improvements have been made since the
World War, but the tardiness of this advance should make us apologetic
rather than proud. Man has become acquainted with enormous natural
forces, but he has not as yet contrived control of them nor reached an
adequate notion of their wise use.


### ---Economics-1932-0-06.txt---
Although man has practised agriculture and lived on the fruits of
the earth for hundreds of thousands of years, we do not yet understand
in detail the process of the growth of chloroplast, that part of the plant
which transforms the energy of sunlight into the potential energy of
carbon compounds. And yet if chloroplast, the green pigment in plants,
should cease to function, all plant and animal life would soon end upon
the earth. The so-called virus diseases or mosaics of plants constitute
a baffling mystery which plant pathologists have for a generation tried
in vain to penetrate.

In 1898 Sir William Crookes predicted that, at the then rate of increase
of world population, before 1931 the nations would be faced with
a scarcity of wheat. And yet today we have a surplus. How can the
error of this eminent scientist be explained? He based his prediction
on the scarcity of nitrogen for fertilizer; but this need has been so successfully
met by the fixation of atmospheric nitrogen that there is now
danger of an overproduction of fixed nitrogen as well as of wheat. And
yet, in spite of this brilliant achievement, the age-old process by which
plant bacteria "fix" nitrogen in the soil is not known.
Almost coincidentally with the beginning of the westward movement
in America, economics began its career as a science. But its pioneering
days were soon over. As the great industrial and social changes introduced
by the Industrial Revolution became consolidated and crystallized,
so the theory which interpreted them became systematized and
fixed. Basing themselves upon insufficient economic history and unproven
psychological assumptions the classical economists made a premature
attempt to formulate generalizations and "laws," and claimed for their
science a finality which left no-or few-frontiers. And a science without
frontiers cannot advance far. But even from the beginning there
were bold spirits who pioneered in the domain of economic theory, the
while their compatriots pushed the physical frontier across the middle
west of the United States and essayed new experiments in practical activities
and in public policy.

The last advance has come within a decade and is led by those who,
under the influence of scientific method, insist that the science of economics
must be freed from ideas that cannot be tested and proved. They
saw moreover that technology was remaking the material wbrld, and
were dissatisfied with the aloofness and abstractions of prevailing economic
theory. This they urged should deal not merely with wealth, but
with human behavior; and, since the behavior of human beings varies in
response to the differing stimuli of changing environments, they declared
that the enormous changes in our economic and social environment must
be taken into account. The World War called many economists into
services in which they attempted to translate their theories into public


### ---Economics-1932-0-07.txt---
policies. New economic experiments and inventions were made, some of
which constituted real pioneering in the field of human welfare. The new
schools of economists began to insist that their science be not treated
in vacuo, but that it meet the present needs of the factory, the market
place, and the home. The brilliant work of the physicists, the chemists,
and the biologists in conquering the forces of nature compelled the
economists and their allies to face the still more vital problems of social
engineering.

Here is a new frontier. Like every other frontier it was at once a
barrier and a challenge. The general and ready acceptance by the world
of the benefits of science, and the increasing reliance by men of affairs
upon the technologists, inclined them to accept the guidance of those
among the economists or their followers who proclaimed themselves
leaders. Armed with statistical charts and price curves these announced
a new era of prosperity, but the event proved that the advance had not
been along scientific lines. Economic science may be richer by the experience
of the past three years, but the lesson was dearly bought.
In comparison with the definite and positive achievements of the
physical and biological sciences the contributions of the social sciences
to human wealth and welfare are frequently belittled. But such a judgment
errs in taking too short a view. It was surely a daring step in
social experimentation for a generation trained in mercantilist theory
to rely upon free enterprise and competition as guides in the economic
sphere. And the industrial system created during the nineteenth century
has on the whole served the people well, though sometimes the engineer
veers in his course or seems to lose control of the engine. Credit in full
measure may be claimed for much of the economic progress already
achieved, such as the great increase in productivity, the improved standard
of living of the mass of the people, shorter hours, the lessened strain
of manual labor, and the increasing emphasis upon the worth of man
and of his welfare in the economic scheme.

In the complex society of today, moreover, no single science or group
of sciences can claim a mionopoly of method or of human knowledge.
Technology and economics, biology and sociology, engineering and statistics
are interrelated and interdependent. Technological improvements
call for social adjustments, but the technical and engineering enterprises
in turn wait for economic wealth. Advance in one conditions progress in
the others. Economists may fairly claim that their contributions have
been significant and essential. Economic theory has, on the whole, run
ahead of business administration; there has been a lag between the discovery
of truth and its application by those in control of industry. But
neither physical nor social scientists can rest content with the progress
already made, which, in comparison with the unplumbed possibilities of


### ---Economics-1932-0-08.txt---
the future, seems small. If the advance made is to be held and the promised
peaks of prosperity are to be permanently possessed, further pioneering
is called for.

What then are the unsolved economic problems which constitute the
frontier of our science? It has been said that no two economists agree
on anything, and perhaps no one here will accept this list as complete
or satisfactory. But in this time of industrial depression there will be no
dissent if the fluctuations of the business cycle and recurring unemployment
be named as the most important and urgent problem. Nor would
there probably be serious dispute if the conviction were expressed that
a rational system of economics would endeavor to control such obvious
economic irrationalities as the spending of money on reclamation in
spite of agricultural overproduction, the continued waste of economic
resources, unbalanced and misdirected production, wasteful marketing,
foolish spending under pressure, inequitable distribution of the national
income, the toleration of preventable disease and needless accidents, the
breeding of the unfit and the degenerate, the selection of ignorant or
corrupt officials for public service, the cultivation of national and international
antipathies, and the inexcusable folly of competitive armaments
and war.

The list of unsettled questions might be lengthy, but it is not upon
this note that I wish to conclude. An efficient material civilization has
been developed by which man has lifted himself higher above the level
of savages than has ever been done before. The physical plant which our
engineers have built up is probably adequate to our present needs. After
the conquest of the material world new domains of ethical, intellectual,
and artistic achievement lie open before us, which can only be attained
by the great mass of the people, as becomes a democracy, when they have
been freed from drudgery and dulling manual toil. Aristotle once said
that if the shuttle would weave by itself and the plectrum play on the
lyre without hands, then the chief workmen would not need helpers nor
civilization slaves. The conditions laid down by Aristotle have in effect
been realized and as a result not only is modern industry carried on by
free men, but abundant leisure is assured for the development of finer
manifestations of religion, beauty, appreciation, and culture.
The work of pioneering has carried us from the Atlantic to the Pacific
coast, from a hard struggle with nature to a high level of material comfort,
but the task is not yet completed. Denied further lateral expansion,
the pioneering spirit is moving vertically and is raising our material and
cultural standards to higher levels. The frontier is thus pushed upward
rather than outward. On each loftier plane new boundaries offer fresh
challenge; the frontier recedes as we progress and stimulates to renewed
efforts. The boundaries of our science are not fixed; they reach up to


### ---Economics-1932-0-09.txt---
the heavens. Today the most critical dilemma of modern industrialism is
how to acquire a greater degree of control over our economic system.
We must also effect a synthesis of usefulness and beauty, of learning and
life, of material achievement and art, of economics and ethics. Life is
after all one organic whole, and technology and culture are not and
should not be distinct. Mere material achievement is not a final goal. We
must provide a juster social organization, a civilization more appreciative
of and better able to use leisure, art, literature, the finer things of
the spirit, and higher ethical ideals.
 ## Economics-1933-0


### ---Economics-1933-0-01.txt---
Classical and neo-classical economic theory is commonly associated
with a form of liberalism that was more largely directed toward the
repeal of old laws and regulations than to the constructive development
of institutions to meet new social problems. In the past the chief emphasis
has been laid upon these destructive accomplishments of economic
liberalism. It has therefore been easy to overlook the actual constructive
accomplishments of the early nineteenth century, and many are disposed
to believe that these positive achievements were inconsistent with
the primary postulates of classical and neo-classical theory. It must
be confessed that there is confusion of thought in the writings of the
early nineteenth century economists; but a positive theory of constructive
statecraft is implicit in the basic liberal concepts. The most characteristic
features of classical theory lead directly toward a broad concept
of the task of the state.

Classical theory was based upon the concept of an orderly and rational
system of nature, and the concept of a contractual society. We
need not concern ourselves here with the precise forms in which these
concepts were held by the economists of the nineteenth century, because
it is more important to direct our attention to the full content of these
ideas than to the imperfect and incomplete formulations that have prevented
liberal views from achieving their full development.
The science and philosophy of the nineteenth century has greatly
enlarged the scope of both of these fundamental concepts. The philosophy
of nature has been profoundly changed by the development of the
chemical and biological sciences and by the new achievements of astronomy.
Bare mechanical categories of cause and effect have been supplemented
by concepts of adaptation, and of reciprocal determination.
Concepts of absolute laws of nature have been softened so that we now
recognize that the scope of any particular generalization is conditioned
by its place in some system of relations. We recognize, too, that no single
system of relations exhausts all possible interests or interpretations.
In like fashion our attitude toward social and economic institutions
has been profoundly transformed since the publication of the Wealth


### ---Economics-1933-0-02.txt---
of Nations. The development of the concept of evolution has exerted its
most direct influence upon economics by placing institutions in a new
light. The older writers commonly refer to the "existing" institutions,
or to the "existing" system of private property. The explicit descriptions
of the institutional system were thus static, and rarely is there
any positive recognition of historical process in the sense of continuous
change. Even the most devoted adherents of pure theory, today, recognize
the fact of historical development and the essentially dynamic
quality of the basic phenomena of economic life. We are all familiar
with secular trends, cyclical movements, and incidental fluctuations and
variations. These phenomena can now be distinguished explicitly even
though full analysis is still incomplete.

But although the basic postulates of theory have been restated in
much more sophisticated forms, they have not lost their identity. In
fact, we might even say that we are only beginning to appreciate the
full significance of the concepts of the early classical writers. The concept
of social evolution is deeply imbedded in their thought, despite
certain infelicities of expression and despite their failure to follow out
the implications of what was at the time a novel and unfamiliar idea.
The utilitarian concepts of Bentham and John Stuart Mill express, in
addition to many other things, a specific concept of social adaptation.
Both Bentham and Mill achieved notable concepts of an historical process.
They recognized that specific institutions may possess constructive
social significance-utility-at a particular period which they may at
a later time cease to possess because of social change. The utility of particular
institutions thus becomes a criterion for the legislator in considering
social policy; institutions which have lost their utility should
be discontinued, those which promise to be useful may be established
or developed. Mill's discussion of rights of property contains important
historical implications, though historical facts are not stressed at any
point. The entire discussion rests upon an explicit concept of historical
development in which the state may play an active and constructive
part.

In other respects, too, the notion of historical process appears in the
classical writing. The references to institutions are, indeed, couched in
essentially static terms, but references are made to different moments in
the process of social evolution. The process is always thought of as a
whole, and this sense of unity was so strongly felt that the writers were
not conscious of the dangers and ambiguities involved in neglecting to
distinguish between the moments of reference. In discussing such an
historical process there are three primary moments of reference that
are especially useful in abstract analysis. We may refer to the process
at its beginning, when we assume that all its content is implicit; we may


### ---Economics-1933-0-03.txt---
refer to our own present, when much development has taken place,
though many features of the entire system are incomplete and imperfect;
or, using our imagination, we may refer to the ultimate achievement of
the full content of the process, when we presume that all the imperfections
and inadequacies have been overcome and the system stands
forth in its full perfection.

The assumption that economic generalizations were valid througlhout
the historical period rested upon the concept of the unity of the process
of institutional development. The ultimate achievement was taken to be
no more than an expression of relationships which exist at all times and
places irrespective of the institutional devices required for their manifestation.
With such assumptions it was obviously a matter of indifference
whether abstract analysis concerned itself with the bare relations
implicit in social life or with their objective manifestation in a fully
developed institutional system. One might discuss either the economic
phenomena of primitive society or the operations of the perfected system
of private property and contract which would ultimately emerge
when the obsolete survivals of the feudal order had been entirely eliminated
by liberal reform.

This position had elements of logical significance. But there was little
positive defense for the common presumption that the process as a whole
could be thought of as the existing order. To assume that the given moment
could be identified with the ultimate end of the process, involved
the tacit assumption that the process was already approximately complete,
so that the developments of the future were really negligible. This
is a dangerous assumption, but it is by no means an uncommon tendency
of idealists. The imagination is not so severely taxed if it seems certain
that the consummation of all hopes is awaiting "just around the corner."
The nineteenth century liberals were thinking in terms of a final achievement
of the free society in the immediate future.

Underlying all these confused references to the history of institutions
there was thus a positive concept of evolution that was truly remarkable.
For most of these notions appeared before there was any systematic
theory of social evolution. Accordingly, we are justified in feeling
that the explicit development of the theory of social evolution is no more
than a working out of ideas which were significantly present in the classical
writing. There is positive continuity of thought.

The transition from the early form of liberal doctrine to the latter
form involves only two new elements. We must recognize that we cannot
refer indifferently to any particular moment in the process as if it
stood for the whole. Although we may properly discuss the phenomena
at any stage, and although our discussions will have some significance
for the analysis of the process in its entirety, each of the various moments


### ---Economics-1933-0-04.txt---
in the process must be distinguished. We should always be clear
in our minds as to the moment of reference; whether it be the beginning,
the end, or the specific present. The need for this accuracy in statement
scarcely requires elaboration. It is really no more than common
intellectual tidiness.

The second element of novelty involves a genuine development of doctrine.
It is important to recognize the insufficiency of a concept of social
evolution that involves nothing more than the explicit manifestation of
elements that are all present at the beginning. The notion that the totality
of relations is implicit at the outset has many logical attractions,
but the historical consequences are serious. If it be true that the
end of the process is implicit at the beginning nothing really new actually
happens. Time and history would, in this case, merely display a
sequence of events which follow each other by mechanical necessity. The
difficulties involved in such a view have been extensively explored by
Bergson and other modern philosophers; and the earlier concept of process
so brilliantly expressed by Hegel must be deemed unsatisfactory.
We must adopt some concept of historical process that recognizes the
accumulation of new elements around a basic nucleus. The precise detail
of the process is not important for the particular problem in hand,
once it is acknowledged that new things happen and that the movement
of history is not a mechanical display of unconscious cosmic force. We
must, however, find some means of assimilating definitely new elements
to the moving process. Otherwise life and history are no more than a
rigidly prescribed pilgrimage of grace. The concept of evolution implicit
in the classical economics was too thin to exhibit its most significant
properties. There was so much mechanical necessity in its movement
that it afforded too little scope for the positive activities of either state
or individual. There was adaptation, but of a passive kind that was
scarcely more than a mechanical response to the material or the social
environment. The adjustments even of individuals were commonly assumed
to involve no more conscious choice than a narrow mathematical
calculation of profits and losses. Once we recognize the reality of innovation
over wide fields of activity, the significance of constructive activities
of both state and individuals becomes strikinglv clear.
The acceptance of the evolutionary concept in any broad form requires
us to assume that the end of the process of development is remote.
The present moment cannot be identified with the end of the process. We
cannot assume that our institutions are approximately mature and adequate,
so that the imperfections of social organization can be deemed
negligible for purposes of theoretical analysis. It is essential that we
should be keenly conscious that the imperfections of adjustment are
important and that positive, conscious action is essential to overcome


### ---Economics-1933-0-05.txt---
them. Further, any given society will always find its institutional mechanisms
inadequate and imperfect, because changing conditions create new
needs and problems for which self-regulating mechanisms cannot instantly
be created. Regulation is thus essential even in a society that tends
to be self-regulating.

Closely associated with this fact of imperfection in social organization
is the problem of monopoly. Though generally recognized and extensively
discussed, monopoly was assumed to be a mere incidental intrusion
into a social system that was predominantly and naturally competitive.
The older theory assumed monopoly to be foreign to the natural
order of a contractual society, though both natural and legal monopolies
were recognized. This position was in part justified by the older
theoretical contention that monopoly price emerged only under conditions
of substantially complete control of supply. All intermediate conditions
between pure competition and pure monopoly were presumed to
reveal an essentially competitive price structure. Recent developments
in theoretical analysis have completely overthrown this view; and we
must consequently recognize that important monopolistic powers emerge
over an extensive range of cases of monopolistic competition. We are
thus forced to recognize that society is not inherently competitive. The
range of effective competition is much narrower than was long supposed,
and doubtless we may say with truth that competition has never been
effectively organized over the major part of trade and commerce. The
regulation of monopoly is thus a much more important field of activity
than the classical economists assumed it to be, and their own principles
now require an extension of the activity of the state far beyond any
limits that they would have supposed to be essential.
The modern liberal thus believes that social evolution is a constructive
process which involves active participation of both individuals and state.
There is no guiding hand other than the collective wisdom of each generation.
By reason of persistent imperfection and maladjustment, the
remedial activities of the state must needs be extensive; anld, as monopoly
is ever present over a wide field, vigorous regulation is essential to the
protection of the welfare of the public. Modern liberalism thus presents
an entirely new outlook on life, despite a certain continuity of thought
that really reaches back to the sixteenth century philosophy of the
Commonweal.

The full significance of these extensions of the range of state activity
will be more explicitly perceived if we turn to some contemporary problems.
Any development of national planning might seem to be wholly
inconsistent with the basic concepts of liberalism. Planned or regulated
production of certain basic mineral products can be urged by the liberal
on two important counts: conservation of primary resources in the


### ---Economics-1933-0-06.txt---
interest of society as a whole, and the regulation of the monopolistic
conditions almost certain to arise in the large-scale enterprises based on
these mineral deposits.

Many are disposed to question the possibility of assimilating national
planning even in basic industries to the so-called "competitive"
structure of modern society. These doubts ignore many of the realities
of the industrial development of the last forty years. National planning
has long existed in important fields both in this country and in Germany.
If we consider the actual conditions in the iron and steel industry
of the United States since 1890, and forget for the moment all the sophistications
created by the Sherman law and the Supreme Court, it is
fairly evident that the leaders of the industry have deliberately controlled
the rate of investment in the industry, the balance of facilities
for the production of the primary classes of products, and the approximate
rate of annual production. We cannot legally admit that this is
the case, but such is the simplest description of what has actually taken
place. On the whole, there can be little doubt of the essential wisdom
of these arrangements and no little credit is due the industrialists and
jurists by whose ingenuity these activities were brought within the law.
In Germany, of course, the activities of the cartels and large-scale industries
are still more evident, and the nationalization of various industries
since the war is a notable demonstration of planning. In these fields
national planning does not really involve any bureaucratic control of
the details of industrial organization, but merely recognizes the presence
of monopoly or monopolistic competition. The normal sphere of direct
governmental activity would thus be the regulation of the monopolized
industry in the interest of the public.

The general concepts of liberalism are certainly not inconsistent with
an extension of regulated monopoly to transportation and to the production
of oil, coal, ferrous and non-ferrous metals, and electricity. Both
England and Germany are already far in advance of us in respect of
the development of interconnected production and distribution of electricity.
The policies of these countries are certainly more consistent with
liberal principle than the policy or absence of policy that has until the
present year characterized our activities in these fields.
Closely associated with these problems is the question of the nature
of the rights of private property. Wild-cat oil production has been
defended in this country for two generations because any interference
with the individual would constitute a confiscation of property. This
reasoning ignores entirely some of the simplest aspects of comparative
jurisprudence. There is no general principle of law by which surface
rights are inevitably extended to underlying minerals. In Spanish colonial
law all property in minerals vested in the crown. All persons were entitled
to search for minerals, and authorized to exploit minerals discovered


### ---Economics-1933-0-07.txt---
upon payment of certain dues to the government. In Cornwall,
and in the lead mining area of the Mendip hills, surface owners had
no exclusive rights to undiscovered minerals nor any right to prevent
the search for minerals. Rights to the precious metals in England vested
in the crown, and at a critical period in the sixteenth century coal
barely escaped inclusion within the category of mines royal. The precise
limits of rights of property are not very specifically defined. Limits
vary in different jurisdictions and at various times. The redefinition of
these limits constitutes one of the most interesting and significant aspects
in the evolu-tion of our modern contractual society. Recognition of the
fact of social development necessarily commits the liberal to continuous
redefinition of the rights of property. This important feature of public
policy was clearly perceived by John Stuart Mill when he said "the
institution of private property can be improved."

The uncertain future of the gold standard and the current discussion
of various forms of managed currencies raise issues which carry
us more specifically beyond classical theory. The automatic gold standard
was intimately bound into the early liberal concept of a self-regulated
society in which government control and interference were casual and
exceptional. The modern analysis of credit would seem to involve a
serious break with characteristic liberal concepts. It certainly involves
a complete abandonment of a concept of social adjustment produced
by individual acts and choices in which the specific personal interest
is the sole basis of the judgment or choice. Each individual by following
his own interests was presumed to promote the achievement of a
general social welfare that was never consciously considered by anyone,
whether individual or government official. This view was vividly
expressed in respect of banking policy. The function of the bank was
reduced to the task of supplying the credit demanded by the trader;
and, though it was recognized that only "legitimate" demands must
be granted, this qualification meant merely that only bona fide commercial
paper based on actual goods might safely be discounted. The
banker was thus merely the passive servant of the trader. Under these
circumstances, the government need merely insist upon the maintenance
of the convertibility of credit into gold, by preventing imprudent issue
of notes or imprudent neglect of reserves.

None of the outstanding modern analyses of credit accept such a passive
concept of banking policy. It is pretty generally recognized that
banking involves not only serving the trader but in a measure directing
the general course of his activities. Management of the currency is an
inescapable necessity. The present problem is to discover the true objectives
of currency management, and to discover appropriate means of
credit control.

The enlarged concepts of the system of nature bring new elements


### ---Economics-1933-0-08.txt---
to the description and analysis of the processes of economic and social
adjustment; but the changes affect details rather than essentials. The
early identification of liberalism with the doctrine of non-interference
was due to a misconception of the process of adaptation. The restatement
of liberal doctrine is thus a correction of an unfortunate error; a
necessary enlargement of the concepts of nature and social process.
We must recognize that both individual and social adjustment is the
result of conscious effort. Although we can reconcile the achievement
of individual ends with the welfare of society as a whole, it does not
follow that general welfare can be achieved without positive thought and
effort, as a mere residual consequence of the enlightened selfishness of
individuals. It is no longer possible to accept any concept of a mechanical
self-regulating society that excludes the state as an agency of change.
The state must needs be an active participant in social process.
The recognition of such extensive fields for the activity of the state
may seem to destroy all distinction between liberalism and various forms
of nationalism and radicalism. Important differences still remain, both
in principle and practice. The liberal concept of the function of the
state and of social process is realistic. Statecraft is treated as a process
of adjustment and adaptation. The only aim is the achievement at
each moment of the greatest measure of social welfare, national and
international.

Other concepts of statecraft are frankly idealistic. The nationalist
sees only the national state as an end of social and economic policy.
The socialist sees some form of socialist state. The radical pursues
various ideals according to his lights. None of these systems of statecraft
sufficiently recognize the limitations imposed upon our conscious
action by objective circumstance. All these systems of thought assumc
that society can be made to conform to some abstract ideal. The statesman
is presumed to be able to accomplish his will. Since the days of
Jean Bodin liberals have steadfastly opposed this concept of social
process. They have endeavored to demonstrate the ways in which the
development of social life and social organization are modified by external
circumstance. They have endeavored to analyze historical process and
economic phenomena, so that by the cunning of reason the laws of nature
nay be made a means to our social ends. But we conquer nature only
through the understanding of her ways. Social development is not a
demonstration of the superiority of the mind over matter: conscious
activity is itself an aspect of the system of nature.
The enlargement of the concepts of historical process and of the
system of nature do not modify in any essential respect the general
issues between the liberal and the idealists. The analysis of the localization
of industry based upon liberal principles affords no grounds for


### ---Economics-1933-0-09.txt---
presuming the antagonisms of economic interest that are assumed by the
nationalists. Nor is there any basis for the assumption that the primary
features of the territorial division of labor can be significantly modified
or controlled by protective tariffs. At the most, tariff measures can
soften the shocks produced by technological changes. These effects are
certainly not negligible, but they do not play the dominant part in economic
development presumed by the nationalists.

The hope of the socialist that poverty can and will be abolished seems
to the modern liberal merely an ungrounded act of faith; significant as
a motive for reforms, but incapable of realization. The objective limitations
to the satisfaction of our wants rest upon costs rather than
upon absolute scarcity. Former ages seldom experienced an absolute lack
of necessities: in the world as a whole there was bitter want in particular
localities, because the commodities needed were available only in a relatively
distant region. Technological improvement changes the incidence
of scarcity and of cost, but it affords no guarantee that all the requisite
commodities can be placed in the hands of all consumers under conditions
of cost compatible with the functioning of society. Scarcity has
always been relative: and in this sense it remains a permanent economic
problem. Cost must needs appear in any form of society, even though
the rules of allocation are changed. The fact that some of the costs of
the Soviet electric plant on the Dnieper were not borne by the industry
itself, does not mean that they do not exist as a factor in the budget
of the state and in the supply of consumer goods available to the people.
It is doubtless within the power of society to relieve the more extreme
forms of destitution, but there are positive limits to actual accomplishment.
The Webbs and others have shown that destitution is essentially
a phase of maladjustment. This is in part due to social deficiencies,
but in part due to the failure of the individual to meet the requirements
of his environment. Remedial measures can be applied to most of these
problems, but, even if there were no resistance to the application of the
broadest measures for social control, the actual achievement would be
partial and inadequate. Maladjustment is by nature a continuing problem.
We can only work toward mitigation of the severity of its consequences
and toward the reduction of the time required to make new
adj ustments.

These qualifications will doubtless seem very unsatisfactory to the
idealists; but much of our recent experience should remind us that
ideals have a price-possibly too great a price. The severest shocks
of the past generation have been due in no small measure to illusions
born of our ideals. The war developed during a period in which many
supposed that the new achievements of science and culture would make
war impossible. The war fought to end war produced a peace which


### ---Economics-1933-0-10.txt---
seems likely to end peace. Then, in the years of post-war recovery,
we were told that the new economics had eliminated the business cycle;
and many believed these new prophets of the millenium. We have suffered
many disillusionments, and made many mistakes because we have succumbed
to the spell of ideals. Too frequently ideals misdirect the action
they inspire. It would seem then that the realism of the modern liberal
can contribute much to the discussion of current problems and exert a
wholesome influence upon contemporary social policy. Though it may
arouse less enthusiasm among the masses, it is a safer guide for party
leaders and for statesmen.
 ## Economics-1933-1


### ---Economics-1933-1-01.txt---
The past ten years have seen changes of amazing magnitude in the
organization of American economic society. It is of one of these fundamental
alterations that I wish to speak this evening. There are doubtless
other changes of a more spectacular kind, but I doubt whether any other
is of more permanent import, both in practical results and in theoretical
interest. The change to which I refer is the lessening importance of
trade unionism in American economic organization.

I have recently compiled the statistical material relating to the membership
of American trade unions,' bringing down to 1930 the figures
which I had previously tabulated in 1914, covering the period from
1897 to 1914, and again in 1921, for the period from 1914 to 1921.2
The three studies taken together cover a period of over thirty years.
I have already explained in published articles the sources of the material.
The method used in the present study is identical with that of the
earlier compilations, and I shall not take time to describe it here.
The salient fact which emerges from these three studies may be briefly
stated. American trade unionism had always previously shown growth
in periods of prosperity. From 1897 to 1904, the membership increased
from a half million to two millions, quadrupling in seven years. The
movement had reached its end in the latter year and another forward
march did not begin until 1910. From that year until 1913 the membership
increased nearly 50 per cent. The outbreak of the European
War brought a slight recession; but in 1915 the upward movement was
resumed, and from 1915 to 1920 the membership doubled, reaching in
1920 a total of nearly five millions. Undoubtedly a large part of this
gain in membership was ephemeral, and it was to be expected that a
considerable falling off would follow. By 1924 the membership had
dropped to three and three-quarter millions. It is the years from 1924


### ---Economics-1933-1-02.txt---
to 1929 which invite attention. By all the experience of the past, an
increase of membership should have occurred in these years of plenty.
But it did not. In 1929, the membership was the same as in 1924.
Moreover, the figures for membership probably exaggerate the strength
of trade unionism in 1929. It is characteristic of this statistical series,
that there is always a lag. In periods of rising membership, the figures
do not fully reflect the increase and in periods of falling membership
they do not fully measure the decline. Moreover, the increase of 75,000
in public-service trade unions from 1924 to 1929 can hardly be counted
as an increase in trade unionism in the narrower sense, since these
unions do not use the traditional devices of trade unions. It may safely
be said that the American trade-union movement in 1924-29, for the
first time in its history, did not reflect a great period of prosperity by
a growth of membership.

The full explanation of this phenomenon is not easy, and doubtless
many factors are responsible. The first explanation which suggests itself
is that the area within which American trade unions operate successfully
has narrowed relatively to the whole field of occupations. The census
of occupations throws light on this point. From 1920 to 1930, the
total number of gainful workers increased from 41.6 millions to 48.8
millions, a gain of over seven millions or approximately 17 per cent.
Of these the gain in trade, professional service, domestic service and
clerical occupations account for over five millions; in manufacturing
and mechanical trades (including the building trades), mining, transportation
and communication, the traditional strongholds of trade
unionism, less than two millions of the newcomers found placement. The
growth of the first four groups of industries were at the rates respectively
of 40 per cent, 50 per cent, 45 per cent and 30 per cent, while in the
great fields in which trade unionism has been able to establish itself
successfully the rates of growth were 10 per cent, -10 per cent, and 20
per cent. To put the matter in another way, if we exclude agriculture,
which showed a slight decrease, forestry and fishing, a stationary group,
and public service, which showed some gain, the fields in which trade
unionism has been successful showed an increase in gainful workers
of slightly over 11 per cent, while the occupations in which trade unionism
has never been strong showed a gain of 40 per cent.
These occupational changes are in striking contrast with those from
1910 to 1920. In that period the gain in the occupations in which trade
unionism is effective was at practically the same rate as the gain in the
non-organized groups.

American trade unionism remains today as it was 30 years ago,
largely confined to the occupations included in the three census categories
of mining, manufacturing and mechanical, including the building trades,


### ---Economics-1933-1-03.txt---
and transportation. Even in the greatest period of trade-union expansion
from 1915 to 1920 when nearly 2.5 million members were added,
an insignificant part of this increase came from occupations outside the
old field. It was an intensive cultivation of an already occupied area.
If American trade unionism had retained in 1930 its control of the
fields in which it has successfully operated, it could have shown only a
small increase over 1920. That trade unionism has not been able to
expand into trade, clerical occupations, domestic and professional service
is no more a problem now than it was in 1910 or in 1920. The
reasons, or at any rate part of the reasons, are closely connected with
the relation between employer and employee and the size of the business
unit. Where in these occupational divisions the situation approximates
that in manufacturing, as for example, in the theaters, trade unionism
has shown vitality; but the number of such situations has been and remains
small.

But the failure of American trade unionism to increase its membership
during the period under consideration is not due solely to the
shifts in occupational groups which have occurred. Within the field
traditionally covered by trade-union organization, changes have taken
place which have operated powerfully against the advance of trade unionism.
In 1930, in the three fields-minerals, manufacturing and mechanical,
and transportation and communication-there were employed nearly
19 million persons as against 17 millions in 1920. These great occupational
divisions cannot be regarded, however, as homogeneous; and it is
necessary to break them down into smaller categories if an understanding
of what has happened is to be had.

The field of manufacturing and mechanical occupations includes two
radically distinct kinds of occupations-the building trades and the
manufacturing trades. The history of these two from 1924 to 1930
was entirely different and throws light on our problem. The number of
persons engaged in the building industry cannot be exactly ascertained
from the census, but such evidence as there is points to an increase in
the decade of probably 10 per cent in these occupations. The building
trades unions increased their membership from 845,000 in 1924 to
952,700 in 1930, an increase certainly fully proportionate to the gain
in the persons employed in these occupations. In 1930 the membership
in the building trades was 25 per cent of the total membership of
American trade unions, while in the year 1922 it was slightly over 20
per cent. In 1930, the building trades membership was a larger percentage
of the total membership than at any previous period. There
was not in 1930 any diminution in the power of the building trades
unions.

The strength of trade unionism in the other group of occupations


### ---Economics-1933-1-04.txt---
included in the manufacturing and mechanical trades perceptibly
diminished from 1924 to 1930. The explanation of this decline is somewhat
complicated. It is possible, as has been suggested by some, that a
part of this diminution has been due to the growth of large corporations.
Unfortunately this hypothesis cannot be fully tested by the available
statistics, since the changing proportions of persons employed by the
so-called large corporations cannot be ascertained for the occupational
groups represented by the various trade unions. It seems probable,
however, that some of the decline is due to this factor. For example,
the Bakers have undoubtedly suffered in influence from the transfer of
the baking industry from small shops to large factories controlled by
the great corporations of the baking industry. It seems probable that
the metal trades unions have suffered from the same cause.
But any careful examination of the fortunes of the individual unions
in this group reveals another factor which far outweighs in importance
the extension of the great corporation. The rapid introduction of laborsaving
machinery accompanied as it almost always is by the replacement
of skilled labor with unskilled has lessened the membership of many
of the most important American trade unions. The only great group
of trade unions in the manufacturing industries which increased its
membership in the period under review was the printing trades section,
which has suffered relatively least from this factor. Consider briefly
the trade unions included in my compilations under the heading "Chemical,
Clay, Glass and Stone." The Flint Glass Workers in 1915 had
nearly 10,000 members, a membership which they retained until 1921;
at present they have less than half as many. The Glass Bottle Blowers
have suffered a similar decline. The Operative Potters have declined
from 8,000 in pre-war years to 5,800 in 1930. The various unions in the
Window Glass trade, once a powerful aggregation, have almost entirely
disappeared. The entire trade-union membership in the Chemical, Clay,
Glass and Stone trades is today far less than it was in 1915. No considerable
loss in this group can be attributed to the growth of large
corporations. In practically all of these trades the loss is traceable
directly to the invasion of labor-saving and skill-destroying machinery.
Very few unions in the manufacturing trades have escaped some loss
from this cause. The Cigar Makers report a membership in 1930 of
15,000; in 1924, they had nearly 30,000; and in 1915, 40,000. The
Molders, who in 1924 had 34,000, now report 20,000. In all of the unions
enumerated labor-saving machinery has been introduced.
The American trade unions with few exceptions have been built on
the skilled craftsman. Where skill survives, as in the printing trades,
unionism maintains its traditional influence. In the semi-industrial unions
-such as those in the clothing trades-the introduction of machinery


### ---Economics-1933-1-05.txt---
through the diminution in the number of workers has lessened the membership
of the unions, but their strength in proportion to the number employed
remiains relatively high. But elsewhere the destruction of skill
has meant the decline in trade-union influence.

The case of the soft coal miners has been somewhat different. It has
not been so much technological improvements in the trade which has
lessened the strength of the union, as the replacement of coal as fuel
and energy-producing material, and technological changes which have
lessened demand by increasing the power and heat-producing effect of
coal. In the trades producing substitute sources of power no effective
trade unions have developed.

The trades engaged in transportation and communication furnish
another illustration of the working of the same forces. In order to understand
the history of the trade unionism in this group of occupations
it is necessary to divide the workers into two parts as they are employed
by the railroads on the one hand and by other agencies on the other.
The railroad unions experienced an enormous growth during the war
period. The total number of organized railroad workers almost doubled
from 1915 to 1921. Since then there has been a slow decline, due chiefly
to the introduction of labor-saving methods. All the operating brotherhoods
show decreases in membership since 1924. Fewer men are needed to
move the same amount of tonnage. The whole group of persons engaged in
transportation and communication increased from 3.1 millions in 1920
to 3.8 millions in 1930. A large part of this increase was due to the increasing
use of the automobile and truck as an agency of transportation.
But the one great union representing this new form of transportationthe
Teamsters-has shown only a very moderate growth since 1923. The
Street and Electric Railway Union has shown a small decline, fully accounted
for by the decrease in the numbers engaged in this service.
We can summarize the history of American trade unionism in this
period of prosperity as follows:

(1) The iricrease in the number of occupied persons was predominantly
in fields in which trade unionism has never been able successfully
to organize any considerable number of persons.

(2) Within the traditional field of trade unionism, the loss in many
unions has been heavy owing to the introduction of labor-saving and
skill-destroying machinery. The latter feature of the movement has been
particularly important.

(3) Much the same effect has been caused by technological improvements
which have lessened the markets for goods produced by unions
of skilled craftsmen.

The history of American trade unionism in the past 30 years is
roughly epitomized by the figures for the per cent which trade-union


### ---Economics-1933-1-06.txt---
membership is of the whole number of persons gainfully employed. In
1900, it was 3 per cent; in 1910, 5.6 per cent; in 1920, over 12 per cent;
and in 1930, 8 per cent.

We may briefly summarize the present situation as follows: American
trade unionism is slowly being limited in influence by changes which
destroy the basis on which it is erected. It is probable that changes
in the law have adversely affected unionism. Certainly the growth of
large corporations has done so. But no one who carefully follows the
fortunes of individual unions can doubt that over and above these influences,
the relative decline in the power of American trade unionism
is due to occupational changes and to technological revolutions.
It would be interesting to speculate on the possibility that American
trade unionism as a whole could organize on some other basis than that
on which it has organized itself from the beginning of its history. It
is possible that something like the Knights of Labor may emerge and
dominate American trade-union organization. Many writers have counseled
the leaders of the American trade-union movement to abandon their
present forms of organization and to move in the direction of industrial
trade unionism. There are no indications that anything of this kind
will happen in the near future. The changes-occupational and technological-
which checked the advance of trade unionism in the last decade
appear likely to continue in the same direction. It is hazardous to
prophesy, but I see no reason to believe that American trade unionism
will so revolutionize itself within a short period of time as to become
in the next decade a more potent social influence than it has been in the
past decade. This is by no means to say that trade unionism in the
United States is on its way to insignificance as a social factor.
If then we may take it as probable that trade unionism is likely to
be a declining influence in determining the conditions of labor in general,
it is pertinent to inquire briefly what effect this change is likely to
have upon the development of the conditions of labor in the United
States. During the last 50 years, economists, with a greater approach
to unanimity than is customary among us, have assigned to trade
unionism a highly beneficent role in the development of a sound economic
structure. It is true that there have been differences in emphasis upon
the different aspects of the work which a sound trade unionism is assumed
to do. In the main, however, these may be reduced to two lines of thought.
The first school, if I may so dignify the matter, has assumed that
the weakness of the laborer in bargaining puts him at a disadvantage
in dealing with his employer and that a fair wage emerges only between
parties of equal bargaining power. The trade union, it is argued, furnishes
the needed addition to the bargaining power of the laborer. This form
of apologia goes far back in the literature and is sanctioned by many
honored names.


### ---Economics-1933-1-07.txt---
The second school of thought conceives the trade union more as
an instrument of social progress, and less as a means of redressing
the balance in individual situations. The argument runs somewhat as
follows: The labor contract in recent years has become more complex
than formerly. It embraces not merely the monetary element ordinarily
known as wages but the non-monetary elements of the amount of employment,
accidents, occupational disease, etc. It is primarily the
business of trade unionism to establish the conditions surrounding these
non-monetary elements in the labor contract. When these are standardized
for a particular trade, the strictly monetary element of wages will
need less effort. Moreover, and this is perhaps the most important part
of the argument, these non-monetary elements can ordinarily be brought
into standard form only for labor as a whole by legislative action.
The role of the trade union should be to experiment with and establish
these standard conditions in the non-monetary parts of the labor contract.
Compensation for industrial accidents and disease, standardization
of the hours of labor, unemployment insurance, old-age pensions
established and regulated by the state constitute the goal toward which
the trade union is to be the formative agency.

If the foregoing views are correct, the failure of trade unionism to
expand may be partially offset by the adoption by the American states
of systems of compuls,ory &ocial insurance. To be sure, the problem
of exploited labor in certain industries seems impossible of solution in
the face of the decision of the Supreme Court that minimum wage laws
are ulnconstitutional. But the setting up of systems of social insurance
would enormously improve the bargaining power of labor.
The trade-union movement in the United States has in the past by no
means adopted this view of the future of the labor movement. A few
trade unions have made notable contributions in this field. The system
of old-age pensions in the printing trades, and the unemployment insurance
scheme developed by the Amalgamated Clothing Workers have
been important experiments. It was only natural that trade-union leaders
should for so long have indulged the proud hope that the trade unions
could themselves administer adequate systems of insurance. But the
recent declarations of the American Federation of Labor can leave no
doubt that the position of American trade unionism has changed.
The greater part of the large corporations in this country have
maintained systems of old-age pensions for their employees; and some
of them have attempted to establish systems of unemployment insurance.
The need for such provision is clear to their minds. Is it not obvious to
both business men and workmen that piecemeal attempts to provide
for such contingencies as unemployment and old age fail to meet the
situation? We are dealing here with a social problem and not a problem
of an individual trade or business. The events of the past three years


### ---Economics-1933-1-08.txt---
have spoken eloquently in favor of this view. May we not hope that the
decade before us will see employers and trade unions jointly urging
upon the legislatures of our states the establishment of social insurance
systems?
 ## Economics-1934-0


### ---Economics-1934-0-01.txt---
Classical and neo-classical economic theory is commonly associated
with a form of liberalism that was more largely directed toward the
repeal of old laws and regulations than to the constructive development
of institutions to meet new social problems. In the past the chief emphasis
has been laid upon these destructive accomplishments of economic
liberalism. It has therefore been easy to overlook the actual constructive
accomplishments of the early nineteenth century, and many are disposed
to believe that these positive achievements were inconsistent with
the primary postulates of classical and neo-classical theory. It must
be confessed that there is confusion of thought in the writings of the
early nineteenth century economists; but a positive theory of constructive
statecraft is implicit in the basic liberal concepts. The most characteristic
features of classical theory lead directly toward a broad concept
of the task of the state.

Classical theory was based upon the concept of an orderly and rational
system of nature, and the concept of a contractual society. We
need not concern ourselves here with the precise forms in which these
concepts were held by the economists of the nineteenth century, because
it is more important to direct our attention to the full content of these
ideas than to the imperfect and incomplete formulations that have prevented
liberal views from achieving their full development.
The science and philosophy of the nineteenth century has greatly
enlarged the scope of both of these fundamental concepts. The philosophy
of nature has been profoundly changed by the development of the
chemical and biological sciences and by the new achievements of astronomy.
Bare mechanical categories of cause and effect have been supplemented
by concepts of adaptation, and of reciprocal determination.
Concepts of absolute laws of nature have been softened so that we now
recognize that the scope of any particular generalization is conditioned
by its place in some system of relations. We recognize, too, that no single
system of relations exhausts all possible interests or interpretations.
In like fashion our attitude toward social and economic institutions
has been profoundly transformed since the publication of the Wealth


### ---Economics-1934-0-02.txt---
of Nations. The development of the concept of evolution has exerted its
most direct influence upon economics by placing institutions in a new
light. The older writers commonly refer to the "existing" institutions,
or to the "existing" system of private property. The explicit descriptions
of the institutional system were thus static, and rarely is there
any positive recognition of historical process in the sense of continuous
change. Even the most devoted adherents of pure theory, today, recognize
the fact of historical development and the essentially dynamic
quality of the basic phenomena of economic life. We are all familiar
with secular trends, cyclical movements, and incidental fluctuations and
variations. These phenomena can now be distinguished explicitly even
though full analysis is still incomplete.

But although the basic postulates of theory have been restated in
much more sophisticated forms, they have not lost their identity. In
fact, we might even say that we are only beginning to appreciate the
full significance of the concepts of the early classical writers. The concept
of social evolution is deeply imbedded in their thought, despite
certain infelicities of expression and despite their failure to follow out
the implications of what was at the time a novel and unfamiliar idea.
The utilitarian concepts of Bentham and John Stuart Mill express, in
addition to many other things, a specific concept of social adaptation.
Both Bentham and Mill achieved notable concepts of an historical process.
They recognized that specific institutions may possess constructive
social significance-utility-at a particular period which they may at
a later time cease to possess because of social change. The utility of particular
institutions thus becomes a criterion for the legislator in considering
social policy; institutions which have lost their utility should
be discontinued, those which promise to be useful may be established
or developed. Mill's discussion of rights of property contains important
historical implications, though historical facts are not stressed at any
point. The entire discussion rests upon an explicit concept of historical
development in which the state may play an active and constructive
part.

In other respects, too, the notion of historical process appears in the
classical writing. The references to institutions are, indeed, couched in
essentially static terms, but references are made to different moments in
the process of social evolution. The process is always thought of as a
whole, and this sense of unity was so strongly felt that the writers were
not conscious of the dangers and ambiguities involved in neglecting to
distinguish between the moments of reference. In discussing such an
historical process there are three primary moments of reference that
are especially useful in abstract analysis. We may refer to the process
at its beginning, when we assume that all its content is implicit; we may


### ---Economics-1934-0-03.txt---
refer to our own present, when much development has taken place,
though many features of the entire system are incomplete and imperfect;
or, using our imagination, we may refer to the ultimate achievement of
the full content of the process, when we presume that all the imperfections
and inadequacies have been overcome and the system stands
forth in its full perfection.

The assumption that economic generalizations were valid througlhout
the historical period rested upon the concept of the unity of the process
of institutional development. The ultimate achievement was taken to be
no more than an expression of relationships which exist at all times and
places irrespective of the institutional devices required for their manifestation.
With such assumptions it was obviously a matter of indifference
whether abstract analysis concerned itself with the bare relations
implicit in social life or with their objective manifestation in a fully
developed institutional system. One might discuss either the economic
phenomena of primitive society or the operations of the perfected system
of private property and contract which would ultimately emerge
when the obsolete survivals of the feudal order had been entirely eliminated
by liberal reform.

This position had elements of logical significance. But there was little
positive defense for the common presumption that the process as a whole
could be thought of as the existing order. To assume that the given moment
could be identified with the ultimate end of the process, involved
the tacit assumption that the process was already approximately complete,
so that the developments of the future were really negligible. This
is a dangerous assumption, but it is by no means an uncommon tendency
of idealists. The imagination is not so severely taxed if it seems certain
that the consummation of all hopes is awaiting "just around the corner."
The nineteenth century liberals were thinking in terms of a final achievement
of the free society in the immediate future.

Underlying all these confused references to the history of institutions
there was thus a positive concept of evolution that was truly remarkable.
For most of these notions appeared before there was any systematic
theory of social evolution. Accordingly, we are justified in feeling
that the explicit development of the theory of social evolution is no more
than a working out of ideas which were significantly present in the classical
writing. There is positive continuity of thought.

The transition from the early form of liberal doctrine to the latter
form involves only two new elements. We must recognize that we cannot
refer indifferently to any particular moment in the process as if it
stood for the whole. Although we may properly discuss the phenomena
at any stage, and although our discussions will have some significance
for the analysis of the process in its entirety, each of the various moments


### ---Economics-1934-0-04.txt---
in the process must be distinguished. We should always be clear
in our minds as to the moment of reference; whether it be the beginning,
the end, or the specific present. The need for this accuracy in statement
scarcely requires elaboration. It is really no more than common
intellectual tidiness.

The second element of novelty involves a genuine development of doctrine.
It is important to recognize the insufficiency of a concept of social
evolution that involves nothing more than the explicit manifestation of
elements that are all present at the beginning. The notion that the totality
of relations is implicit at the outset has many logical attractions,
but the historical consequences are serious. If it be true that the
end of the process is implicit at the beginning nothing really new actually
happens. Time and history would, in this case, merely display a
sequence of events which follow each other by mechanical necessity. The
difficulties involved in such a view have been extensively explored by
Bergson and other modern philosophers; and the earlier concept of process
so brilliantly expressed by Hegel must be deemed unsatisfactory.
We must adopt some concept of historical process that recognizes the
accumulation of new elements around a basic nucleus. The precise detail
of the process is not important for the particular problem in hand,
once it is acknowledged that new things happen and that the movement
of history is not a mechanical display of unconscious cosmic force. We
must, however, find some means of assimilating definitely new elements
to the moving process. Otherwise life and history are no more than a
rigidly prescribed pilgrimage of grace. The concept of evolution implicit
in the classical economics was too thin to exhibit its most significant
properties. There was so much mechanical necessity in its movement
that it afforded too little scope for the positive activities of either state
or individual. There was adaptation, but of a passive kind that was
scarcely more than a mechanical response to the material or the social
environment. The adjustments even of individuals were commonly assumed
to involve no more conscious choice than a narrow mathematical
calculation of profits and losses. Once we recognize the reality of innovation
over wide fields of activity, the significance of constructive activities
of both state and individuals becomes strikinglv clear.
The acceptance of the evolutionary concept in any broad form requires
us to assume that the end of the process of development is remote.
The present moment cannot be identified with the end of the process. We
cannot assume that our institutions are approximately mature and adequate,
so that the imperfections of social organization can be deemed
negligible for purposes of theoretical analysis. It is essential that we
should be keenly conscious that the imperfections of adjustment are
important and that positive, conscious action is essential to overcome


### ---Economics-1934-0-05.txt---
them. Further, any given society will always find its institutional mechanisms
inadequate and imperfect, because changing conditions create new
needs and problems for which self-regulating mechanisms cannot instantly
be created. Regulation is thus essential even in a society that tends
to be self-regulating.

Closely associated with this fact of imperfection in social organization
is the problem of monopoly. Though generally recognized and extensively
discussed, monopoly was assumed to be a mere incidental intrusion
into a social system that was predominantly and naturally competitive.
The older theory assumed monopoly to be foreign to the natural
order of a contractual society, though both natural and legal monopolies
were recognized. This position was in part justified by the older
theoretical contention that monopoly price emerged only under conditions
of substantially complete control of supply. All intermediate conditions
between pure competition and pure monopoly were presumed to
reveal an essentially competitive price structure. Recent developments
in theoretical analysis have completely overthrown this view; and we
must consequently recognize that important monopolistic powers emerge
over an extensive range of cases of monopolistic competition. We are
thus forced to recognize that society is not inherently competitive. The
range of effective competition is much narrower than was long supposed,
and doubtless we may say with truth that competition has never been
effectively organized over the major part of trade and commerce. The
regulation of monopoly is thus a much more important field of activity
than the classical economists assumed it to be, and their own principles
now require an extension of the activity of the state far beyond any
limits that they would have supposed to be essential.
The modern liberal thus believes that social evolution is a constructive
process which involves active participation of both individuals and state.
There is no guiding hand other than the collective wisdom of each generation.
By reason of persistent imperfection and maladjustment, the
remedial activities of the state must needs be extensive; anld, as monopoly
is ever present over a wide field, vigorous regulation is essential to the
protection of the welfare of the public. Modern liberalism thus presents
an entirely new outlook on life, despite a certain continuity of thought
that really reaches back to the sixteenth century philosophy of the
Commonweal.

The full significance of these extensions of the range of state activity
will be more explicitly perceived if we turn to some contemporary problems.
Any development of national planning might seem to be wholly
inconsistent with the basic concepts of liberalism. Planned or regulated
production of certain basic mineral products can be urged by the liberal
on two important counts: conservation of primary resources in the


### ---Economics-1934-0-06.txt---
interest of society as a whole, and the regulation of the monopolistic
conditions almost certain to arise in the large-scale enterprises based on
these mineral deposits.

Many are disposed to question the possibility of assimilating national
planning even in basic industries to the so-called "competitive"
structure of modern society. These doubts ignore many of the realities
of the industrial development of the last forty years. National planning
has long existed in important fields both in this country and in Germany.
If we consider the actual conditions in the iron and steel industry
of the United States since 1890, and forget for the moment all the sophistications
created by the Sherman law and the Supreme Court, it is
fairly evident that the leaders of the industry have deliberately controlled
the rate of investment in the industry, the balance of facilities
for the production of the primary classes of products, and the approximate
rate of annual production. We cannot legally admit that this is
the case, but such is the simplest description of what has actually taken
place. On the whole, there can be little doubt of the essential wisdom
of these arrangements and no little credit is due the industrialists and
jurists by whose ingenuity these activities were brought within the law.
In Germany, of course, the activities of the cartels and large-scale industries
are still more evident, and the nationalization of various industries
since the war is a notable demonstration of planning. In these fields
national planning does not really involve any bureaucratic control of
the details of industrial organization, but merely recognizes the presence
of monopoly or monopolistic competition. The normal sphere of direct
governmental activity would thus be the regulation of the monopolized
industry in the interest of the public.

The general concepts of liberalism are certainly not inconsistent with
an extension of regulated monopoly to transportation and to the production
of oil, coal, ferrous and non-ferrous metals, and electricity. Both
England and Germany are already far in advance of us in respect of
the development of interconnected production and distribution of electricity.
The policies of these countries are certainly more consistent with
liberal principle than the policy or absence of policy that has until the
present year characterized our activities in these fields.
Closely associated with these problems is the question of the nature
of the rights of private property. Wild-cat oil production has been
defended in this country for two generations because any interference
with the individual would constitute a confiscation of property. This
reasoning ignores entirely some of the simplest aspects of comparative
jurisprudence. There is no general principle of law by which surface
rights are inevitably extended to underlying minerals. In Spanish colonial
law all property in minerals vested in the crown. All persons were entitled
to search for minerals, and authorized to exploit minerals discovered


### ---Economics-1934-0-07.txt---
upon payment of certain dues to the government. In Cornwall,
and in the lead mining area of the Mendip hills, surface owners had
no exclusive rights to undiscovered minerals nor any right to prevent
the search for minerals. Rights to the precious metals in England vested
in the crown, and at a critical period in the sixteenth century coal
barely escaped inclusion within the category of mines royal. The precise
limits of rights of property are not very specifically defined. Limits
vary in different jurisdictions and at various times. The redefinition of
these limits constitutes one of the most interesting and significant aspects
in the evolu-tion of our modern contractual society. Recognition of the
fact of social development necessarily commits the liberal to continuous
redefinition of the rights of property. This important feature of public
policy was clearly perceived by John Stuart Mill when he said "the
institution of private property can be improved."

The uncertain future of the gold standard and the current discussion
of various forms of managed currencies raise issues which carry
us more specifically beyond classical theory. The automatic gold standard
was intimately bound into the early liberal concept of a self-regulated
society in which government control and interference were casual and
exceptional. The modern analysis of credit would seem to involve a
serious break with characteristic liberal concepts. It certainly involves
a complete abandonment of a concept of social adjustment produced
by individual acts and choices in which the specific personal interest
is the sole basis of the judgment or choice. Each individual by following
his own interests was presumed to promote the achievement of a
general social welfare that was never consciously considered by anyone,
whether individual or government official. This view was vividly
expressed in respect of banking policy. The function of the bank was
reduced to the task of supplying the credit demanded by the trader;
and, though it was recognized that only "legitimate" demands must
be granted, this qualification meant merely that only bona fide commercial
paper based on actual goods might safely be discounted. The
banker was thus merely the passive servant of the trader. Under these
circumstances, the government need merely insist upon the maintenance
of the convertibility of credit into gold, by preventing imprudent issue
of notes or imprudent neglect of reserves.

None of the outstanding modern analyses of credit accept such a passive
concept of banking policy. It is pretty generally recognized that
banking involves not only serving the trader but in a measure directing
the general course of his activities. Management of the currency is an
inescapable necessity. The present problem is to discover the true objectives
of currency management, and to discover appropriate means of
credit control.

The enlarged concepts of the system of nature bring new elements


### ---Economics-1934-0-08.txt---
to the description and analysis of the processes of economic and social
adjustment; but the changes affect details rather than essentials. The
early identification of liberalism with the doctrine of non-interference
was due to a misconception of the process of adaptation. The restatement
of liberal doctrine is thus a correction of an unfortunate error; a
necessary enlargement of the concepts of nature and social process.
We must recognize that both individual and social adjustment is the
result of conscious effort. Although we can reconcile the achievement
of individual ends with the welfare of society as a whole, it does not
follow that general welfare can be achieved without positive thought and
effort, as a mere residual consequence of the enlightened selfishness of
individuals. It is no longer possible to accept any concept of a mechanical
self-regulating society that excludes the state as an agency of change.
The state must needs be an active participant in social process.
The recognition of such extensive fields for the activity of the state
may seem to destroy all distinction between liberalism and various forms
of nationalism and radicalism. Important differences still remain, both
in principle and practice. The liberal concept of the function of the
state and of social process is realistic. Statecraft is treated as a process
of adjustment and adaptation. The only aim is the achievement at
each moment of the greatest measure of social welfare, national and
international.

Other concepts of statecraft are frankly idealistic. The nationalist
sees only the national state as an end of social and economic policy.
The socialist sees some form of socialist state. The radical pursues
various ideals according to his lights. None of these systems of statecraft
sufficiently recognize the limitations imposed upon our conscious
action by objective circumstance. All these systems of thought assumc
that society can be made to conform to some abstract ideal. The statesman
is presumed to be able to accomplish his will. Since the days of
Jean Bodin liberals have steadfastly opposed this concept of social
process. They have endeavored to demonstrate the ways in which the
development of social life and social organization are modified by external
circumstance. They have endeavored to analyze historical process and
economic phenomena, so that by the cunning of reason the laws of nature
nay be made a means to our social ends. But we conquer nature only
through the understanding of her ways. Social development is not a
demonstration of the superiority of the mind over matter: conscious
activity is itself an aspect of the system of nature.
The enlargement of the concepts of historical process and of the
system of nature do not modify in any essential respect the general
issues between the liberal and the idealists. The analysis of the localization
of industry based upon liberal principles affords no grounds for


### ---Economics-1934-0-09.txt---
presuming the antagonisms of economic interest that are assumed by the
nationalists. Nor is there any basis for the assumption that the primary
features of the territorial division of labor can be significantly modified
or controlled by protective tariffs. At the most, tariff measures can
soften the shocks produced by technological changes. These effects are
certainly not negligible, but they do not play the dominant part in economic
development presumed by the nationalists.

The hope of the socialist that poverty can and will be abolished seems
to the modern liberal merely an ungrounded act of faith; significant as
a motive for reforms, but incapable of realization. The objective limitations
to the satisfaction of our wants rest upon costs rather than
upon absolute scarcity. Former ages seldom experienced an absolute lack
of necessities: in the world as a whole there was bitter want in particular
localities, because the commodities needed were available only in a relatively
distant region. Technological improvement changes the incidence
of scarcity and of cost, but it affords no guarantee that all the requisite
commodities can be placed in the hands of all consumers under conditions
of cost compatible with the functioning of society. Scarcity has
always been relative: and in this sense it remains a permanent economic
problem. Cost must needs appear in any form of society, even though
the rules of allocation are changed. The fact that some of the costs of
the Soviet electric plant on the Dnieper were not borne by the industry
itself, does not mean that they do not exist as a factor in the budget
of the state and in the supply of consumer goods available to the people.
It is doubtless within the power of society to relieve the more extreme
forms of destitution, but there are positive limits to actual accomplishment.
The Webbs and others have shown that destitution is essentially
a phase of maladjustment. This is in part due to social deficiencies,
but in part due to the failure of the individual to meet the requirements
of his environment. Remedial measures can be applied to most of these
problems, but, even if there were no resistance to the application of the
broadest measures for social control, the actual achievement would be
partial and inadequate. Maladjustment is by nature a continuing problem.
We can only work toward mitigation of the severity of its consequences
and toward the reduction of the time required to make new
adj ustments.

These qualifications will doubtless seem very unsatisfactory to the
idealists; but much of our recent experience should remind us that
ideals have a price-possibly too great a price. The severest shocks
of the past generation have been due in no small measure to illusions
born of our ideals. The war developed during a period in which many
supposed that the new achievements of science and culture would make
war impossible. The war fought to end war produced a peace which


### ---Economics-1934-0-10.txt---
seems likely to end peace. Then, in the years of post-war recovery,
we were told that the new economics had eliminated the business cycle;
and many believed these new prophets of the millenium. We have suffered
many disillusionments, and made many mistakes because we have succumbed
to the spell of ideals. Too frequently ideals misdirect the action
they inspire. It would seem then that the realism of the modern liberal
can contribute much to the discussion of current problems and exert a
wholesome influence upon contemporary social policy. Though it may
arouse less enthusiasm among the masses, it is a safer guide for party
leaders and for statesmen.
 ## Economics-1935-0


### ---Economics-1935-0-01.txt---
I hope you will pardon me if I seem to talk shop. I disclaim talking the
shop of that branch of the federal service with which I am at present connected.
Yet I cannot avoid the appearance of talking shop; for my views are
quite as much the result of experience and observation in industry as of
reading and reflection in my study.

The nation under the New Deal stresses collective action. The National
Industrial Recovery act permits business men to come to grips collectively
with problems which have baffled them as individuals. Section 7 (a) seeks
to safeguard the right of employees to collective bargaining. Associations,
codes of fair competition, price maintenance schemes, labor unions and employee
representation plans have developed in hot-house profusion.
The New Deal and the hope of rapid recovery stirred up the trade unions
and, more important, fired the courage of workers in many localities and industries
where unionism had never existed or had long been quiescent. There
especially the challenge of unionism encountered renewed resistance from
employers, their lawyers and economic counsel. A race developed between
so-called legitimate unions and so-called company unions, with statistical
results not accurately known. The fact is, however, that in the United States
there are now more employee representation plans, with a larger attached
membership than ever before and more unions with a larger membership
than ever before, except for a few years at the close of the war period when
union membership was in excess of 5,000,000. And the race has not come
to an end; most certainly not the clash between rival forms of organization
for collective bargaining, accompanied by hectic argument over "majority
rule," "proportional representation," "minority rights," "individual rights,"
and all the rest of it. Collective bargaining is under discussion more than at
any other time in our history, and this discussion promises to remain rife for
some years to come. I shall make brief observations on some phases of this
subject. Lack of time forbids discussion of forms of labor organization and
of governmental policy.

Before proceeding to the economic phases, permit me to remark that the


### ---Economics-1935-0-02.txt---
interests of workers in collective bargaining may not be limited to details of
the labor contract. To unionists generally, collective bargaining means something
in addition to wages, hours, tenure, and working conditions. For it
establishes a new "government in industry," "industrial democracy," "representative
government," "citizenship in industry," to employ a few of the
more frequently used terms. If citizens have a voice and a vote in political
affairs, why should they not have voice and vote in industry? The demand
for recognition and collective bargaining is regarded, and now safeguarded,
as a democratic right. This statement is made because unionism should not
be disposed of entirely on economic grounds, to which from this point on I
shall confine my remarks.

Three stages, or shifts of emphasis, are discernible in the evolution of the
union theory of collective bargaining.

Its first or simplest form emphasized the need of equality of bargaining
power between employer and employee. Labor spokesmen stressed the view
that the wage-earner under modern industrial conditions is a weak and incompetent
bargainer, possessed of little more than an ineffective veto power
in the refusal to accept employment on the terms offered and in the right to
quit the job when dissatisfied. The individual worker, as compared to the
employer, they say, is ignorant of the market situation and of employment
opportunities; he has little or no reserve power in funds in hand; he fears to
push a claim vigorously for fear of discrimination or loss of job; he is likely
to reason that it is better to accept or retain employment on adverse terms
than to lose working time altogether; he finds himself pitted against other
seekers of work, and the cheaper man is the successful bidder; if he has employment,
the terms of his contract, like the railway time-table, are "subject
to change without notice."

Naturally enough, the average unionist's case for collective bargaining has
run largely in terms of the concrete instance, the personal factor, "big business"
versus the economically small workman, and the short run. But,
thanks largely to intellectual friends such as Mr. and Mrs. Webb, and to experience
in a complicated world, the union spokesmen have had more and
more regard for the longer run and market considerations. Thus their second
stage has brought them to a realization of the need for control due to industrial
and market organization and the pressure of market competition. They
realize that the average employer, however appreciative of the value of good
working conditions and the needs of his workers, is under the necessity of
reducing costs because of the money-saving, chiseling practices of his less
socially-minded competitors. Competition frequently prevents employers
from doing what they would like to do in labor matters. Hence, nowadays,
we hear relatively less of balancing bargaining power between the employer
and his employees, and more of the need for standardization and control, of
placing all firms in a market on pretty much the same plane of labor costs,


### ---Economics-1935-0-03.txt---
and of having competitive success depend largely upon managerial ability,
sound organization and the like.

The characteristic union emphasis on the weakness of the individual
bargainer and the necessity for concerted action as a defense against market
forces has generally been at the neglect of the other side of the picture
placed before the public. Under collective bargaining the workers' representative
may not only be free from any fear of injury at the hands of management,
but he may be, and very frequently is, the better informed and more
skillful bargainer in so far as labor matters are concerned. The union, by
providing strike benefits, gives reserve power and ability to strike; and
more important, by preaching solidarity and building up and sustaining
morale, it may develop the will as well as the power "to see things through."
The supply of labor may be controlled, and competition for work restricted
and employment rationed in a variety of ways-among them, the closed
shop, closed union books, high initiation fees, restrictive rules relating to
apprentices and helpers. Unions, like employers and politicians, dislike
too much competition. Finally, under collective agreements, changes to
the disadvantage of the workers cannot readily be made without due notice
and consent; terms of employment and perhaps tenure of job cease to be
"at will."

As seen by the trade unionist, who acts upon a bargaining theory of
wages and who, like the business man, generalizes from concrete experience
in industry, there is, therefore, a tremendous difference between the results
of unrestrained individual bargaining and the results to be obtained
through concerted action. As John Mitchell said, "Trade unionism thus recognizes
that the destruction of the workman is the individual bargain, and
the salvation of the working man is the joint, united, collective bargain."'
Thus it is claimed that collective bargaining is necessary to equalize bargaining
power between workers and employer, to standardize terms of employment
as a basis for fair competition, to reduce pressure in the trade
or industry, and to stabilize the employment relationship.
To this statement of the case, now decades old, the American unions
have added a third argument-that wages must be increased in proportion
to increases in industrial efficiency in order to balance consumption and
production and to maintain the necessary market outlet for industrial products.
2 Officially adopted as a labor doctrine by the American Federation of
Labor in 1925, it has been accepted by many business men, not a few economists
and obviously by many persons holding public office. The same is
true of a related but inharmonious doctrine to the effect that in depression
maintaining or increasing wages is necessary to maintain or to effect an increase


### ---Economics-1935-0-04.txt---
in purchasing power, which is the appropriate road to recovery. The
role these doctrines have of late been playing in public affairs is well known.
Now what have economists to say concerning the theory of collective
bargaining as thus set forth? And what shall one say of what economists
say?

It need hardly be remarked that present-day economists find a less unimportant
place for unionism and its theory of collective bargaining than did
those of earlier generations. Indeed, some of them find an important role
for collective dealing in employment relationships. Yet, most economists,
in the language of Professor Smart, when reviewing the Webbs' Industrial
Democracy, would ask whether the case does not prove too much.3 They
have been at pains to show the theory's neglect of important factors, such
as the competitive demand for labor, and the limited control that can be
exercised; and they criticize the exaction of unjustified differential advantages
and a warped national economy. A few present-day economists are
indeed not far removed from Cairnes of 1870; they see practically no opportunity
for collective control if very harmful results are not to follow.
Economists, as has been said of professors, are men "who think otherwise."
In this brief discussion only a few of the more important questions raised
by economists can receive consideration. Differences among economic
theorists cannot be definitely followed up.

Is collective bargaining needed to defend the workers' interests? The
theory of wages held by most economists runs largely in terms of marginal
productivity. According to this theory, each employer has reason to hire
labor and to purchase other factors needed in his business up to that point
where the value of the contribution of each unit of labor or other factor
is substantially the same as its cost. In an ideal state and in the absence of
friction, there is active competition for labor until this results, not only in
the given plant but in all plants in all industries. Hence, whatever may be
the forces affecting the supplies of labor and the other factors in production
and whatever really determines the prices of products, wages tend to
conform to marginal productivity.4 The weak are protected, and approximately
fair wages as between industries are obtained-in so far as competitive
demand is effective.

Thus the economist emphasizes a factor-demand-not sufficiently emphasized
by the labor spokesman or the "labor economist." This factor must
be emphasized if the facts regarding wages, say, during the last 50 or 100
years are to be explained. The demand for labor, enlarged by increasing
capital invested and better utilized resources, has caused more and more
workers to be absorbed into industry at increased wages as the generations


### ---Economics-1935-0-05.txt---
have passed. Labor has shared in the gains resulting from economic progress.
Yet the tendency for wages, because of the nature of the demand for
labor, to approximate labor's contribution does not necessarily mean that
labor's interests are adequately protected.

This brings me to my first critical comment on the theorizing and still
more the conclusions relating to policy emanating from many of my clansmen.


Permit me to observe that it is a curious fact, explained perhaps by undue
emphasis upon a narrow price economics, that economists generally have
been prone to discuss collective bargaining, the need for it, and what it
can and what it cannot accomplish, in terms of wages only. Wages are
only one detail in the labor contract and employment situation. Though
wages are certainly of first consideration in an age of scarcity, hours of
work, tenure, and general working conditions are vital to the working
man. Query: Do economic forces operate in such a way as to conserve these
other interests as they are supposed to do for wages?
T1he answer is a qualified No. The fact is, I believe, that a competitive
demand for labor does not go far in protecting the workers against long
hours, overtime, fines, discharge without sufficient cause, and objectionable
working conditions. This is explained in part by the fact that employers as
a rule are not actively interested in the long-run effects of hours and working
conditions because of a lack of accurate knowledge of these effects and
because the labor contract is ordinarily terminable at will. In so far as hours
are concerned, there is fear that a reduction means reduced output or that
one reduction will develop interest in another. That it is exceedingly difficult
to return to a longer day or week when a short one has been in use is
well known.

The explanation is found in part also in the fact that workers accept employment
chiefly in view of rate of pay and possible earnings and of accessibility
of the place of employment. Long hours, much overtime, discrimination,
inconsiderate discipline, and bad working conditions may give rise to
a large turnover of labor due to many quitting; but such a turnover has not
generally led management to ascertain causes and to remedy them. Do we
not find twenty firms with neat turnover figures for one that seriously uses
them in an attempt to improve management?

Finally, the explanation is found in part in the fact that there is usually
keen competition in the market for the product as well as competition for
help. In order to extend business, to hold business, to meet the needs and
whims of customers with reference to style and delivery, to make favorable
prices and to maintain profits and dividends, these things are likely to be


### ---Economics-1935-0-06.txt---
ters mentioned "are not adequately determined by the market processhours
of work and conditions of work are things that intimately concern
workmen and are best decided collectively."5

Returning now to a discussion of wages and collective bargaining, it is to
be noted that according to the economic theory briefly stated above, there is
a tendency for wages to equal the value-product of labor at the margin.
Economists generally do not contend, however, that this tendency fully safeguards
the wage-interest of the workers. They recognize the element of friction
in the real situation. Some attach much more importance to friction
than do others. In my opinion, and I think in the opinion of most able and
experienced employers also, it is of greater importance than is generally
recognized by our fraternity. Put in other words, the demand for labor is
not as effective in safeguarding the workers' interest in wages as most
economic theorists seem to think, if not to contend.
In a boom period, when prices are rising and profits are good, business
is very active and bidding for labor generally becomes keen. It may develop
to the point of stealing help. At such times rates of pay advance rapidly.
But in more normal times, though progress is being made and most
workers are finding employment, wage advances are hesitantly offered, and
there is more or less room for under-payment, even for a considerable degree
of exploitation. For there are groups with limited mobility, and new
accessions to the labor supply and displaced workers are more or less
eagerly seeking employment on such terms as their limited individual
bargaining ability will secure for them. It may then well be that there are
no well-defined standards of wages in certain industries and in many localities.
For long periods labor tends to be absorbed into the industry or locality
with limited relation to wages paid elsewhere. Within one industry or
locality there are the lower obstructive wages paid by the hard-boiled managers.
Piece-rates are nibbled here and there, more work or better quality
is required, and the worker is stretched out. All the while in most plants
there is a bad rate structure, slowly corrected, when corrected at all. The
fact is that wages depend to a considerable extent upon the policies of the
employers, as so many investigators have found in concrete situations. To
secure evidence, study, among others, the needle trades, the bituminous
coal industry, the cleaning and dyeing industry, the laundry trade, the manufacture
of candy, and the cotton textile industry.

Furthermore, the economic theorist assumes in much or in all of his
analysis that there is no element of monopoly or concerted control in the
demand for labor or in fixing wages. This is by no means true. An employer,
or a group of employers acting in concert or just individually fearing
to create problems, may dominate the employment situation in a community.
So it was in the mining of anthracite coal between the middle
f W. H. Hutt, The Theory of Collective Bargaining, p. 107.


### ---Economics-1935-0-07.txt---
seventies and the turn of the century. Wages were pegged; payment for
timbering and "dead work" was reduced or eliminated altogether; coerced
purchases at company stores charging high prices, and powder sold at a
profit of 200 per cent, took the larger part of the earnings of the miners.
Even in a city like Chicago, an industry may dominate a large community
and the firms engaged in it may control the situation within rather wide
limits. Going beyond this, I could cite a number of instances where associations
of manufacturers or merchants have fixed scales or, indeed, maximum
wages to be paid and have enforced them more successfully than any
American state has enforced its minimum wage standards. How many such
instances there are no one can know, but there is good reason to believe that
they are not so highly exceptional as the uninitiated think. They have significance
in the real world of employment. Yet, it is true that, though imperfect,
a competition for labor exists. And, of course, the productivity
theory of wages also remains essentially true, however little it may really
tell the curious who wish to have wages explained. The point is that the
element of friction, as the theorist calls it, is of real significance in connection
with wages, where the operation of market forces is more likely to
conserve the workers' welfare than their interests in hours and working
conditions.

What I have said relates chiefly to the need for collective bargaining to
defend the workers' interest. Most unions, however, are often not defending
the wages they have had, but are on the offensive to get more; not infrequently,
emphatically more. "Heavens, what is your limit?" cried the head
of a great industry, in a collective bargaining conference. "No limit," replied
the union chief, "the same as yours." Unions are usually trying to get
better differentials for their own members. Their success in getting such
differentials is one of the larger facts in collective bargaining.
Hence the criticisms-too severe in my opinion-by most business men
and also most economists, of unionism, the differentials the union secures,
and the resulting utilization of productive capacity.
There is little criticism of the standardization of wages as such; but
there is much criticism of unjustified differentials and of enhancement of
wages on the ground that these will increase labor costs and total costs,
with undesirable results, such as unemployment and repressed enterprise.
Without question some unions secure unjustified differentials. I will not
mention plumbers, for you have heard of them. Unionism may result in an
uneconomic distribution and use of a nation's productive capacity. But without
control through collective bargaining or through law, sweated wages
and sweated industries are not highly exceptional. They are uneconomic.
Think of coal in the nineties, of the needle trades, of the laundries and of
the candy factories. It is likely that collective bargaining has more frequently
brought wages in an industry up to an acceptable level than it has


### ---Economics-1935-0-08.txt---
resulted in unjustified differentials. Moreover, in many cases high wages
for some groups have been sacrificed in order to increase the wages of the
lowly paid groups. In any event, the fact of unjustified differentials does
not necessarily argue against collective bargaining. It argues rather for the
industrial union so that craft wages will not be out of line with wages of
the unskilled, and for government action to provide needed data and
efficient conciliation and arbitration machinery.

I pass to the incidence of wage increases exacted. As to the effects of
increased wages, economists, as well as business men, when confronted by
demands for higher union wages, all too frequently assume that both labor
costs and total costs are increased by the amount the rate of pay is increased.
The fact is that other things do not necessarily remain equal; we are entirely
too much inclined to assume that they do. In a dynamic situation, there is
no necessary and inevitable relationship between a change in wage rates,
especially on a time basis, and labor cost, and there is no necessary and inevitable
relationship between a changed labor cost and total cost. For what
would be an increased cost due to higher wages may, like some taxes, be
transformed or offset in some way or other.

A wage increase may lead the employer to select and train his workers
more carefully. More important, when the union comes in, the turnover
of labor is generally reduced to a fraction of what it has been; the cost of
acquiring new workers and training them, and the losses from interrupted
operation due to unbalanced sections are reduced. Generally the cost of
supervision is also reduced in the union shop. Again, the union may cooperate
in introducing or extending piece work where all previous attempts
have failed. In a Chicago instance, in spite of the dilution of labor made
during a labor shortage in 1919, a clothing firm found that after piece
work had been introduced with the active co6peration of the union, the
output of suits and overcoats per worker in a given unit of time increased
60 per cent. This instance is not unique in my experience. Finally, in cases
of union-management cobperation-which is by no means limited to well
known railway shops-exceptional gains in efficiency and economies may
result. Not infrequently the higher wages are earned, if labor cost is the
test.

On the other hand, it must be admitted that the union shop may be
accompanied by enhanced labor costs exceeding any increase in wage rates
secured. Possibly management loses adequate control over hiring, lay-off
and discharge; for hiring may be controlled by the union and discharge may
be for "cause" only, thus making it difficult to weed out the less desirable.
More frequently than they cooperate in the extension of piece work, unions
oppose it; seldom are bonus systems tolerated in the organized trades. The
union may have bad morale, due to defeat in some objectives, or to a militant


### ---Economics-1935-0-09.txt---
attitude accompanying a strong feeling of solidarity. Limitations may
be placed directly or indirectly upon individual output. In the union shop
helpers may be forced out, the number of apprentices limited, and restrictions
placed upon the subdivision of work or upon the introduction of new
machinery and of more economical processes.

Thus the differences between union and non-union shops and also between
one unionized shop and another are such as to make any conclusions
as to labor costs based upon a comparison of wage rates quite insecure. Concrete
situations differ widely. In one extreme case as a result of union cooperation
in introducing piece work, reducing the turnover of labor, and maintaining
discipline, the wage advances were more than offset and the labor
cost of manufacturing a suit of clothes reduced approximately ten per cent,
though the earnings of the workers more than doubled. In other known
cases the labor cost increased more than would be indicated by the increases
in wages and reductions in hours. But most frequently an increase
in wages on a time basis and almost always an increase in wages on a piece
basis means an increase in labor cost. Such must be the conclusion of the
student whose investigations of concrete cases are of necessity limited to
the short run. Perhaps the long-run effects might differ somewhat because
of the favorable effect of higher wages on efficiency.
Turning to the question of total cost, it may be that with labor made
more expensive, less of it and more of capital will be employed, total costs
not being increased as much as the labor costs would have been. In this
case the amount of employment in the industry is reduced. Higher wages
are then at the expense of employment. On the other hand, with low wages
eliminated, management may be "tightened up." If it is not, a firm may
go to the wall and production be concentrated in the more efficient plants.
But the mortality of firms with unionization is not so great as one might
expect, for in the real world necessity is frequently the mother of invention.
Most economists see only the lure of profit; necessity of remaining in and
playing the game is important. Low wages and long hours often have been
a tax, higher wages and shorter hours a premium, upon efficiency of organization
and management.

Thus only the most intensive investigation would establish the relation
between wages increased by union pressure and labor cost and total cost of
production or of providing a service. And certainly such investigation would
yield diverse results. Nevertheless, it is true that unionization most frequently
means some increase in labor costs and in total costs as well, and sometimes
the increase is a relatively large one.

When and where this is true, the question arises, who loses what organized
labor gains in wages and working conditions? Do higher costs spell
higher prices paid by consumers of the product, whether they be rich or


### ---Economics-1935-0-10.txt---
poor; or do higher wages come out of profits? In either event, and especially
in the second, what is the effect on business enterprise and the volume
of employment for union men?

The answers must be brief and rather inadequate. The all too common
assertion that higher wages resulting in higher costs are charged up to the
consumer is frequently wrong, at least in part. Often they come out of profit,
especially where only a part of the industry is organized. Where they do
come out of profit, industry at that point is handicapped and there is a tendency
for it to migrate and flourish elsewhere. Where higher prices curtail
consumption, as of good housing, or where higher costs come out of profits,
the volume of employment for union men is diminished. Moreover, relatively
high wages may cause unneeded labor to seek to enter or to remain in the
trade, so that the amount of time lost is increased. And where a union cannot
control the industry supplying a market, a struggle ensues and organization
is likely to be disrupted. It is important for unions, especially those not
functioning in a monopolistic or sheltered position, to stress efficiency and
to observe the rule of what the traffic will bear in respect of costs.
Turning to a question which greatly concerned English economists a
century ago, are not the gains of the organized workers inevitably at the
expense of the unorganized?

Analysis shows that the effect of the union higher wages upon the wages
of others is a mixed one. For contrary forces are set in action. In so far as
non-union men are admitted to organized plants, they commonly reap the
full benefit of any improvement secured by union effort. Moreover, the
workers in a non-union plant in an industry with an active unionism also
secure gains; for if their employers pay too low wages and maintain too long
hours, the path of the organizers is easy.

But, on the other hand, where the closed shop is maintained the non-union
workman is excluded, and under the preferential shop he is handicapped.
Or if the effect of unionism is to restrict an industry because of smaller
quantities sold at higher prices or because of curtailment of profits, again
workmen are excluded and forced in increased numbers into other trades.
This of course tends to depress their wages and to increase the differentials
between union and non-union wages.

In these days much is said and a lot assumed about changing the distribution
of income as between labor and other recipients through the extension
of unionism and collective bargaining. A difficult question is raised.
Time permits only a recording of certain views in summary fashion.
It is clear that by the enforcement of standards under collective bargaining
a degree of exploitation can be prevented at the expense of unearned
profit. It is clear, also, that a share can be exacted from monopoly profit,
though, in justice to all, monopoly profit should be taxed away when not
prevented. Pressure exercised by labor or by law can have the effect of


### ---Economics-1935-0-11.txt---
reducing salaries. These are all too frequently "fancy" and therefore socially
and economically unwarranted. Yet the total of excessive salary payments
does not bulk large; salaries do not contain much that can be transferred to
labor under the existing industrial system.6 And there are difficulties involved
in transferring directly much from the returns of property and enterprise.


Perhaps about the usual supply of enterprise and capital might be forthcoming
were their returns substantially reduced; for the return required
depends largely upon what can be had. It is certainly no fixed and irreducible
thing. But with mobility of capital, returns in a given country are not independent
of possible returns in other countries. Morever, when labor becomes
dearer and capital cheaper, the latter will be substituted in a measure,
and to that extent capital's return will tend to increase, and likewise technological
unemployment. Finally, capital, if fearful of union control, may
require prospect of more than the usual return as a condition of necessary
supply.

In my opinion the possibility of raising wages generally and substantially
through collective bargaining unless there is increased efficiency and less
waste, is rather limited, however extensive and powerful unionism becomes.
The level of wages and the welfare of the masses turn much more
upon progress in production and upon the taxation and spending policies
of government than upon any such thing as the control of wages through
collective bargaining or through law. Unions should look to results in
production as one road to general welfare. Certainly government revenue
systems and expenditures might be more extensively employed than they
have been to increase the real income of the masses.
Brief reference may be made to the doctrine that wages must be made
high and kept high to provide the mass purchasing power required to maintain
a market outlet for goods produced. This doctrine lies behind much
of American union, and now of public, policy. It is the subject of much
current discussion.

The doctrine of high wages is open to criticism because it makes too
much of the idea of a limited market. Very frequently there is failure to
realize that the whole value of what is produced is distributed to labor,
management and the owners of property employed-that each dollar,
whether obtained as wages, interest or profit, has potential buying power.
The doctrine does, however, contain a large kernel of significant fact. The
rate of saving and investment, the amount of speculation and room for
error in forecasting the market, vary with the distribution of the industrial


### ---Economics-1935-0-12.txt---
product. Other things equal, the smaller the share going in wages, the
more rapid is saving and investment and the greater the risk of industrial
miscarriage. Beyond this, opportunity for investment is limited by the
possibilities of consumption. Investments must be supported by capacity to
buy and consume. And, it may be added, it is difficult to see what significance
industrial progress has unless it adds in large measure to the welfare
of the masses of the people. Labor's general doctrine of "progressing" wages
cannot be dismissed.

What should be done about wages in time of depression? Business men
who pay wages, and economists, have been dominated by the belief that
wage rates must be reduced in depression in order that the employer, with
lower labor costs, may successfully compete, and that necessary profit may
be realized, investment induced and business enterprise revived. Organized
labor in the present depression has held that wage rates should be increased
so that consuming power may be expanded and an adequate market provided.
It is no secret that this position has colored the New Deal.
In so far as this concerns recovery as against reconstruction, the position
taken by organized labor must be regarded as a mistaken one when applied
in private industry motivated by prospect of profit. As seen by those who
for profit pay wages, costs are too high because wages are too high; higher
wages cause fewer to be hired; purchasing power may be smaller when
wage rates are high than when they are low.

Economists rather generally believe that in normal and especially in
boom times good policy calls for progressing wage rates, which the traffic
can and should bear, but that in depression wage maintenance or enhancement
is at the expense of recovery and volume of employment. They do not
believe in inelastic or in increased wages in depression. In their view, wage
brakes should be applied in booms, but should be released in depression.
High wages do not serve as a self-starter.

With this I agree, when recovery rather than reform is the objective. My
differences with some of the fraternity have to do with important phases
often regarded as minor points. Frequently, it seems to me, wage reduction
is entirely too much emphasized as a means of recovery. It is unfortunate
that there is limited recognition of the fact that reductions in non-labor
costs and fixed charges are just as important for lowering total costs and
restoring profit. There is a great problem of sticky prices of many things,
especially of building materials and of goods entering into capital equipment.
This problem has increased under the New Deal. There is also
a problem of heavy fixed charges due to unwarranted emphasis upon mortgage
bonds in corporation finance. The bondholder is insured as against
everyone else. My second point is that good policy rejects wage cuts until
waste and other elements in costs have been removed or deflated. Efficiency,


### ---Economics-1935-0-13.txt---
general welfare and maintenance of the market for the bulk of consumption
goods, all require this.

Whether I have successfully sustained it or not, my position is that there
is a case for collective dealing, though it offers no panacea. The problem is
to secure the advantages of standardization and the needed pressure toward
efficiency and elimination of waste, and at the same time to establish such
relations between industries as will give an economical industrial structure
and relatively fair employment conditions. But why should this not be
worked out through codes of fair competition or through some less direct
form of government intervention?

This question I cannot discuss save in one of its aspects. Frequently it is
said that code making and enforcement render or should render organization
of labor unnecessary. Experience has shown this to be untrue. What a
code contains depends very much upon whether labor is effectively organized
and articulate. Code administration depends almost as much upon the
same thing. Pressure group must be balanced by pressure group under democratic
government.

A final word. Unionism means a new government in industry. Any government
is what that government does with its problems. Employers should
accept the principle of collective bargaining in good faith. Labor organizations
must be alive to their responsibilities to industry and to the consuming
public as well as to their members. While militant on occasion, they must
be cobperative in production. There should be a reasonable correspondence
between wages in different industries if a sound economy is to be realized.
Perhaps all this is too much to expect from pressure groups, with or without
collective bargaining. Government must step in; it has and will remain.
Government should provide the indispensable chilled steel tools-that is,
unquestionable data on wages, hours, turnover, costs, etc.-and adequate
machinery for conciliation, mediation and voluntary arbitration, to smooth
the way for joint dealing to the end that the unsocial powerful may be
held in check and that reason may be permitted to prevail. Given reason
and good faith, out of this welter of collective bargaining there may possibly
emerge desirable social habits in industry.
 ## Economics-1936-0


### ---Economics-1936-0-01.txt---
This is a time for reviewing fifty years of accomplishment in our science;
and much accomplishment there has been, in which we may well take pride.
But while this is fitting and proper, we shall not do well to dwell too much
on the mood of self-congratulation. For this is also a time for rather deep
humility and searching examination of our results, our methods and our
standards. We know much more than we did fifty years ago, bht in another
sense there is much less of which we are certain. And it remains true that in
a time of desperate need economics has not furnished the unified and authoritative
guidance which many have thought, rightly or wrongly, that they
had a right to expect. The story I must try to tell is an unfinished one, and
there is no guarantee of a happy ending.

A Review of Fifty Years: The Starting-Point

"Speaking generally, . . . the men best qualified to stand in the front rank
of American Economists are not the authors of systems or general theories, or


### ---Economics-1936-0-02.txt---
textbooks of principles, but writers on special subjects.... The number
of powerful intellects it has brought to bear on them is a remarkable phenomenon.
... In the perfection of its economic statistics America leaves England
behind." This was not written in 1935, but in 1880, by Cliffe Leslie;
and the men he names as writers on special subjects include David A. Wells,
Francis A. Walker, William G. Sumner, C. F. Dunbar and Simon Newcomb.
A few years later, Walker and Newcomb joined the ranks of the authors of
general treatises; and later still, the tone of the picture changed radically.
The great revival and expansion of American economics dates, not from
the founding of the American Economic Association, but from the end of
the Civil War. The founding of the Association marks, however, a profound
reorientation of the utmost importance. To understand it, one must
go back to the state of college teaching of economics half a generation
previous. The subject was typically treated as an adjunct to philosophy; and
simple and absolute "natural laws" were presented as final truths about the
economic world. Out of this schooling came a small group of young and
able students, independent enough to react against it, conscious of defects
of traditional method and shortcomings of traditional doctrine, and ambitious
to build a better structure on sounder foundations. They went to
Germany for advanced study; and we now delight to honor them as the
Pilgrim Fathers of the new movement.

The period of over sixty years which followed may be roughly marked
off into four main movements, coming into dominance at successive periods
of time, but over-lapping one another as all such movements in history
are bound to do. First came a period of preparation, orientation and gestation,
lasting until approximately 1890, and including the formation of the
Economic Association. Second came the development and consolidation of
an indigenous form of the marginal economics, paralleling the development
of the Austrian economics and of Alfred Marshall's economics in
England. Third came a critical movement; and fourth, the rise to dominance
of positive types of study of diverse sorts, among which our efforts are
divided-shall I say dispersed?-at the present time.
Preparation, Orientation, Gestation

The process of orientation contained much that was superficially paradoxical.
It was part of a transition of which one might flippantly say that
it gradually transformed American economists from laissez faire protectionists
to free-traders who believed strongly in the positive function of the
State in economic life. This paradox, however, is easily explained by the
changing issues of the times. More seriously one might ponder over a
movement, largely animated by a spirit of breaking away from traditional
system theories and apparently well launched in the direction of the Historical
School, yet the outstanding fruit of which in its first twenty years


### ---Economics-1936-0-03.txt---
and more was a most luxuriant crop of system theories of a new sort. If
there was one thing that American economics did not do during that period,
it was to become dominantly historical.

To explain this fact it may be sufficient to recall that these Pilgrim
Fathers were individuals, independent-minded, differing from one another,
and no more prepared to accept uncritically the more extreme forms of
German doctrines than those of their own country. They brought back
with them a social type of ethical background, but not a particularistic
type of nationalism. Their conception of the increased role of the State
was at the service of this social ethics, not of narrow nationalistic ends.
They genuinely wished a broader groundwork of historical fact to put
system theory on a proper basis, but not to displace it entirely. On the whole,
they were, and remained, more nearly in the current of the English tradition
than in that of Germany.

While the younger members of the group were laying their foundations,
the commanding figure of Francis A. Walker dominated the field; his
Political Economy, appearing in 1883, took rank as the outstanding American
treatise, and bridged the interval between the earlier classical period
and the later marginalism. Soon after, the younger group began to put
forth their works. As might be expected, there were many special studies;
but far more revealing were a few that expressed the writers' general points
of view-my father's Philosophy of Wealth, Patten's Premises of Political
Economy and his Consumption of Wealth, and Henry C. Adams's classic
monograph on The State in Relation to Industrial Action. Here was an
unmistakable reorientation, neither classical nor purely historical. By the
end of the eighties, Ely's Introduction to Political Economy had appeared;
and two papers by my father and one by Stuart Wood had staked out the
marginal productivity theory of distribution. The phase of preparation was
at an end.

Systematic Marginal Economics

Of the various forms of systematic marginal economics which had their
independent origin in this country, there is little I can profitably attempt
to say in the time available, save that they caused this country to take rank
with the leading foreign countries in the development of theoretical economics
which was directed to analyzing the conditions of a stable or a
static equilibrium. The few comments I shall make are not so much on the
marginal economics as on our attitude toward it.

One is that the marginal or differential method is and remains perhaps
the greatest single tool of economic analysis; and its usefulness is by no
means confined to the study of the simple conditions of perfect and stable
equilibrium. Another is that these studies of equilibrium are not endproducts,
and not to be construed as finished pictures of the actual world;
in my father's case at least great care was taken not to present them as


### ---Economics-1936-0-04.txt---
such. They are themselves tools of analysis and methods of approach to a
picture too complicated ever to be finished. A third point is that while a
picture of perfect equilibrium deals in its way with forces which are at
work in the actual world, the form in which it presents these forces will
almost inevitably need to be modified when we move on to the task of
studying them as they actually operate. The terms of a static demand schedule
need to be changed in order to fashion it into a verifiable concept;
and the tendency of prices toward cost of production does not operate
unqualifiedly under all conditions. Some of these changes are likely to be
of the sort which John Stuart Mill described as chemical rather than mechanical,
leading to results not deducible by the method of composition of
forces. And a fourth point is that the problems with which these theories
of marginal equilibrium deal are not the whole of economics.
In the period when the economics of marginal equilibrium held the
field as the supreme orthodoxy, these qualifications tended to be forgotten
to a greater or less extent; and the result was really an injustice to the
theory. Too much was expected of it.

The Critical Movement

At no time was the marginal economics free from disagreement and
controversy; in fact, some of its family quarrels were famous. More serious
criticism began to come from Thorstein Veblen even before the publication
of my father's Distribution of Wealth; but for some time he made
little impression on those inside the citadel, save one of irritated puzzlement
as to what he was driving at and why. But for some years before the
outbreak of the World War there was an increasing spirit of scepticism
mixed with active iconoclasm, which before long came to seem the characteristic
mood.

There were attacks on the hedonistic psychology underlying marginal
utility, leading some to withdraw into psychological agnosticism. Some
managed miraculously to keep a semblance of the doctrine while attempting
to withdraw from all vulnerable psychological positions. There were attacks
on the ethical implications of marginal productivity, attacks on the logic of
marginal imputation and on the founding of the factors which underlay
it. There were attacks on statics for not being dynamics, or more pertinently
for not affording an adequate approach to dynamics. There were attacks
going no deeper than verbal questions of the formulation of theories, and
attacks apparently aiming to uproot all theory as such. In caliber, the attacks
ranged from mediocrity cavilling at what it did not understand to genius
declining to classify its intuitive insights in the customary pigeonholes.
It is obviously out of the question to estimate the validity of all this
body of criticism. Instead, I shall content myself with suggesting the way
in which it seems probable that this question will work itself out-namely,


### ---Economics-1936-0-05.txt---
in the theories and assumptions which the oncoming generation will find
useful and necessary in the positive work which it will do. Judging by
present indications, the effect in the long run will not be one of complete
destruction.

Modern inductive and quantitative studies are already making use of
bits of the equilibrium theory as hypotheses, although they have usually
had to be reformulated to adapt them to the requirements of verification.
Even in the study of disturbances themselves, pictures of the conditions
necessary to equilibrium often furnish a starting-point in the analysis of
why equilibrium is not reached. This method has its dangers; for the investigator
is prone to rest content when he has found one cause which
seems sufficient to explain the general fact of disturbance, and emerges
with a one-sided and inadequate theory. Such reasoning should be based
on an adequate factual picture; but the factual picture alone is not sufficient.


An interesting case is afforded by the question whether statistical studies
reveal evidence of a tendency of price toward "normal." Construing this
for the moment in the limited sense of a normal relation of price to expense
of production, the figures show a tendency of price to fluctuate
around some kind of typical or average relation to cost, and in this sense
a normal price persists. What the figures do not show is a separate force
tending to cause prices to return to this normal relation to costs whenever
they have departed from it in the smallest degree, beginning to act as
soon as any discrepancy shows itself, continuing until prices have returned
to normal, and then ceasing. This latter concept of the tendency to normal,
which is appropriate to a static state, is too simple to represent the forces
acting under dynamic conditions. Instead, it seems probable that the selflimiting
and the cumulative forces are not neatly separated from each
other, but may represent the same forces or factors acting differently under
different conditions.

Another aspect of the static normal is the tendency to full utilization
of the productive factors. It is obvious that actual conditions cannot fluctuate
around this as an average, since they can depart from it in only one
direction. Hence the typical or average condition is necessarily below the
static norm; and a "normal" percentage of utilization derived from the
average of observed behavior is necessarily a dynamic factor and not anything
pertinent to a static state of perfect and stable equilibrium.
When equilibrium theories are used as devices to analyze actual conditions
which do not follow the equilibrium model, one curious and interesting
result sometimes follows-namely, a fuller development of the equilibrium
theory itself. The conditions necessary to equilibrium often have
to be more carefully and rigorously stated than ever before, in order to
show how actual conditions differ and why they lead to a different result.


### ---Economics-1936-0-06.txt---
In this way the theory of imperfect competition has forced economists to
pay serious and searching attention to the definition of the conditions necessary
to perfect competition-something which had previously been strangely
neglected. The same principle applies to the theory of marginal productivity,
in whose mathematical implications some renewed interest has
lately been shown by mathematico-quantitative investigators. One may anticipate
a considerable development and refinement of this theory in following
out the different ways and degrees in which the underlying principle
applies to different kinds of concrete situations.
Negative criticism did not drive out "orthodoxy" from the field of
theory, partly because nature abhors a vacuum-if such a pre-scientific
expression may be indulged in. What happened during this period was
that other fields of study expanded enormously and drew more and more
apart from the central core of theory. These special fields involved much
factual study and had their own special histories, and were constantly
dealing with problems of expanding governmental action. In this way
American economics was approaching more closely to the character announced
in the early manifesto of the Economic Association. With the
entry of this country into the World War, interest in negative theoretical
criticism was overshadowed by more urgent positive needs.
Positive Inquiry of Diverse Types

With this change in emphasis, the foreground came to be occupied by
various types of positive studies, some of which were already well under
way. First, and perhaps most characteristic, was the quantitative analysis
of economic behavior, with its chief interest centered on the problem of
economic fluctuations.

This branch of study had previously been regarded as hardly respectable
for a scientific economist to take seriously, owing largely to three handicaps.
One was the lack of adequate statistical material. This left the study
of booms and depressions in the realm of speculative theories, and the
assumptions underlying them necessarily ran counter to the preconceptions
of the dominant equilibrium theory, and hence were worse than suspect
as being unscientific. Worst of all, these theories were associated with
socialistic doctrines which were beyond the pale. The first handicap has
been overcome by the development of statistics. If the problem is not solved,
there is now at least plenty of material to set one's teeth into. The other
obstacles have been worn away by a sort of attrition, aided by the waning
of the prestige of equilibrium theory and the decline of the general spirit
of optimistic faith in the spontaneous workings of the competitive system
which characterized the nineteenth century. But the most active element
has probably been the growing seriousness of the problem itself, which
could not forever be dismissed by a defense reaction based mainly on the


### ---Economics-1936-0-07.txt---
classical proof of the impossibility of general overproduction.
The appearance of Mitchell's first volume on business cycles in 1913
marks a new epoch in this field of study, replacing abstract speculation by
a detailed quantitative investigation of the phenomenon itself. And now,
after a lapse of twenty years, this problem has at last suddenly forced its
way into the front rank of issues of public policy, and thereby has marked
a new epoch in the relation of government to business.
Along with this development went the growth of the rather elusive
movement known as "Institutionalism," which means so many different
things to so many different people that doubt has arisen whether it has
any definable meaning at all. It covers certain fields of study, such as Veblen'
s evolutionary theories and the investigations of legal institutions by
Ely and Commons. But it may be more important as an underlying point
of view orienting many different kinds of specific studies and lending
changed significance to the day-to-day routine operations of the business
system. It may be that we cannot fully understand these day-to-day operations
without understanding them as parts of an evolutionary movement
going back before the present forms of property rights and containing
forces destined to make the present forms obsolete. This is something
vastly different from the nineteenth century conception of progress within
an institutional framework which was expected to remain fixed because
it had found its final terminus in the system of individualism and free
contract, modified only by piecemeal control of specific abuses.
Another major development of late years is that of mathematical economics,
using new and powerful techniques and bringing its results in touch
with quantitative verification. The recent founding of the Econometric
Society is a landmark in this movement. It faces great and inherent difficulties
in the framing of assumptions simple enough to lend themselves
to mathematical formulas yet flexible enough to grapple effectively with
the problems of dynamic economics. Even the measurement of a demand
schedule for a manufactured product is a surprisingly baffling problem.
In the face of these difficulties, important achievements have been made,
and more are to be looked for in the future.

Much has been done lately by mathematical and quantitative methods
with the theory of general price levels and their changes. Here the most
notable recent contributions have come from the other side of the water;
but all appear to be in a decidedly controversial stage at present. Another
subject recently attacked by mathematical methods, both here and in England,
is imperfect competition. The results so far are of great interest;
but they illustrate the difficulty already mentioned, of framing usable
assumptions adequate to interpreting the complexities of actual conditions.
The time element in demand and supply schedules is particularly baffling,
while the relation between these abstract curves and the mental processes


### ---Economics-1936-0-08.txt---
governing the actual reactions of business men bids fair to defy systematic
analysis. We shall probably be wrestling with these difficulties for some
time to come.

The fact is that as we enter the realm of dynamic and quantitative problems,
we face more and more exacting demands. The certainties of equilibrium
theory, hypothetical though they were, are replaced by stubborn uncertainties;
and the most careful students are the least ready to present
final answers. The mills of quantitative research grind slowly, and may
never produce certainties on many of the larger issues. Hence, the humility
which the responsible student must needs feel, even after footing up a
large total of achievement by his science of economics during the past
fifty years.

Equilibrium theory assumed that what is saved is spent; that purchasing
power arising from production is used and flows back into further production.
Now we ask if this is true, and find evidence of discrepancies. If we
spend more for some one thing, shall we have less left to spend on other
things, or more? The answer begins with: "It depends." Are imports an
addition to our national dividend and exports a subtraction, or vice versa?
We have no ready-made answer. We cannot combat old heresies with the
same whole-hearted confidence as our predecessors-there may be something
in them. And in this mood of doubtful potency we entered the gravest
crisis of economic policy which this country has faced since the slavery
question.

Economics and the World Crisis

If we try to assess the part economists have played in this crisis, the
result is likely to be confusing. If our criterion is the part they have played
in shaping policy, we find that a few economists have played a strategic
part, while many more have rendered able and conscientious service in
subordinate positions, below the levels at which policies were formed. If
we ask instead whether economists have been able to reach substantial
agreement on proposed measures, we find that there has been a considerable
measure of agreement, though far short of unanimity; but this agreement
has quite commonly been contrary to the policies actually followed.
The greatest approach to unanimity probably came in the condemnation of
a high tariff. This was a standard reaction on the part of the economists;
and the politicians countered with their own standard reaction-by ignoring
it.

The unfortunate fact seems to be that the consensus of economists has
no absolute authority, and no right to claim it. Scientific truth is not to be
certified by a general counting of noses, even the noses of economists.
The results of new and untried measures can seldom if ever be predicted
with scientific certainty. Within the margin of doubt, economists, like
others, will follow their preconceptions; the minority view may happen


### ---Economics-1936-0-09.txt---
to be right; and the government will be free to select those theories and
proposals which best fit the tone of the administrative mind.
This difficulty will probably always be with us. In the face of it, what
is the best we can do? Few would nowadays attempt to draw solutions
ready-made from traditional theories. I can think of instances which approximate
this, but they are rare. And the economist who does this is hardly
less risky a guide than the one who follows the more popular course,
throwing all received theories overboard and trying to work out every problem
as a fresh and disconnected exercise. What is needed is a readiness
to use accepted theories, and the methods by which they were derived,
as tools of analysis, with a clear eye for the limitations of their applicability
to the specific conditions of the problem in hand, and a readiness to make
the theories over, if need be, on a basis of changed assumptions. In short,
what is needed is thinking which is free, but disciplined. A few of us are
like soldiers going through the manual of arms in the face of the enemy;
more of us are throwing away our guns because we see no use in the
manual. Neither of these is the way to win battles.
I have already said that this present crisis marks an epoch in the relation
of government to business. Earlier controls dealt with localized sections
of industry, applying standards derived from the unregulated field; or
they dealt with particular incidental aspects other than the central question
what and how much to produce and at what price. Now we are dealing
with inidustry as a whole and going to the core of the matter. Earlier controls
dealt mainly in restraints on particular abuses; the present problem
is not one of restraints on abuses of vigorous private activities, but one of
supplying motive force itself where motive force is lacking. Earlier attacks
left unquestioned the main redeeming feature of private industry its
power to produce goods plentifully and efficiently; now this main redeeming
feature is called in question. And apparently few leaders of private
industry yet realize the seriousness of the situation.
The issue seems to be wrongly put by many, who ask whether in the
face of the weakness of private industry and our fumbling attempts to
deal with it, the present system of private industry can be maintained. The
answer seems clear. If the system persists, its character will be changed
until it will no longer be the present system. If change does not come
through governmental action, it will come through inevitable developments
in industry itself. The system has been changing its character constantly
during the last hundred and fifty years, and as much through the action
of industry as that of government. More changes are in store; and we can
set no ultimate limit on their extent.

The present system is failing to use the productive powers it has so
plentifully developed, and to give everyone an opportunity to produce and
to earn a living. Can a system which will do these things be fashioned


### ---Economics-1936-0-10.txt---
out of the present system by methods which will preserve the continuity
of our development; or will a violent break be unavoidable? This seems
to be the real question; and the world will not give us unlimited time to
work out the answer.

Those who, like myself, have been brought up in the liberal tradition of
gradual change, will approach this question with a strong leaning-call
it a prejudice if you will in favor of evolutionary rather than revolutionary
methods of change, urging that the former be given the benefit of every
reasonable doubt. Personally, I hope most earnestly that evolutionary methods
will prove sufficient; but I recognize that this is hope, not prophecy.
To make it come true will be one of the most difficult things a nation ever
undertook; but it is not yet proved impossible.

If this is a true estimate of the probabilities, it places the future work
of the economist in a very different setting from the atmosphere of relative
stability and certainty in which our predecessors operated. It points to the
likelihood of a world full of trial-and-error experimentation, in which the
more deliberate studies may seem fated to reach their goal, if at all, too
late to render service. That chance some of us must take, while others grapple
with the more immediate issues.

Problems for Economists

As to the technical problems facing us as economists, many have been
dealt with at these meetings, and I shall mention only three groups by
way of illustration.

In the field of economics of wage levels, what is the character of the
demand schedule for labor under different conditions? What are the effects
of wage changes on the threefold function of wages (a) as incentive
to the worker, (b) as cost of production to the employer, and (c) as purchasing
power furnishing demand for goods? Are the requirements of
these three functions in harmony, or if not, can they be brought into
harmony?

In the theoretical field, there is a whole class of questions arising where
a given economic change may have either self-limiting or cumulative
effects or both, the question being to distinguish the fields within which
these two opposite effects occur-in short, to give us a better systematized
basis for judging which kind of effect to expect in any given case. For
example, under what conditions, or over what periods of time, will spending
more for radios leave the country less to spend on other things, and
under what conditions will it leave more? Under what conditions are
imports a loss to our national economy and under what conditions are they
a gain?

Another large class of theoretical questions has to do with introducing
t1me elements which have not yet been introduced into familiar concepts.


### ---Economics-1936-0-11.txt---
Take, for example, a demand schedule. Will a given change in the price
of electric refrigerators, relative to other things, have different effects in
a day, a month, a year, five years? Would other commodities show substantially
the full effect more quickly or more slowly? Can this time
element be represented by a curve approaching a saturation-point in time,
or by some other type of curve? Will sales at a price of $100 be different
one week after a reduction from $120 from what they would be one week
after an increase from $80? This problem seems especially pertinent to
the concept of the demand schedule for the output of a single productive
enterprise, of which so much use is now being made in the theory of imperfect
competition.

The list of problems is endless; but these examples may suffice. It is
clear that there is no lack of tasks for economists, and tasks which have
important bearings on policy, aside from catch-as-catch-can wrestling with
the expediencies of particular proposed measures.

Conclusion

It is not certain how much time the world will give us for finding answers
to questions such as these; indeed, it is not certain that free scientific
inquiry itself has a perpetual undisturbed lease on life. These also are
chances we must take. It may not be wise to embark on inquiries which
presuppose that the present system will remain substantially unchanged for
generations to come. But it is still less wise to be stampeded by the critical
state of the world into abandonment of all systematic inquiry; of all definitely
scientific researches which do not bear on the instant solution of the
question of a processing tax or a coal-control bill. And back of these researches
lies the thing which makes them possible: free scientific inquiry.
This, rather than particular conclusions and doctrines, is the most precious
heritage left us by our honored predecessors. It still has its place in the
world, so long as the world will tolerate it; and of all our possessions as
economists, this is the one best worth conserving, and defending if the
need should arise, with every effort in our power.
 ## Economics-1937-0


### ---Economics-1937-0-01.txt---
Economic science has a solid tradition and an arsenal of techniques that
offer a fair measure of objective certainty. As economists we think of our
science developing out of its own inner forces, according to its own laws.
Why then need we concern ourselves particularly with the fact that the social
political economic intellectual world is obviously in a condition of flux
which as historians we should have to recognize as presaging a transition
to a new order?

Is it relevant that the layman expects us to direct our interests and efforts
toward the problems that are presented by the time? We all know, indeed,
that the intelligent public is discontented with the economists. We are
charged with a multitude of sins, many of which we do cheerfully and
sinfully acknowledge. We are said to disagree on every imaginable point
of doctrine. So we do. We are freemen. Those who wish for agreement
among scholars would best turn to the scholars functioning anemically under
the totalitarian states, where economics is an apology for the will of a
dictator, usually an ordinary man of low I.Q., magnified to a million
diameters. We plead guilty to the charge of diversity of opinion. We are
proud to plead guilty.

But there is another charge brought against us for which our defense is
not so adequate. It is the charge that we spend too much time in ivory towers
-vegetable ivory, to be sure, made by du Pont-and too little time out in
the rough and tumble of real life. We are credited with the ability to apply
reason to the problems that are breaking the back of the average good
citizen, but we appear to lack the public spirit that would prompt -us to
exercise that ability.

Imagine that we were living in a time of geologic cataclysm, and the
vast Eurasian continent, from Kamchatka to Gibraltar were cleft in twain,
exposing the geologic formations down to the hot Plutonic base, what
could we expect of the geologists? That they would add footnotes and
appendices to their standard texts, or that they would go out with hammer
and chisel, and report: "Such and such is the actual architecture of the


### ---Economics-1937-0-02.txt---
world"? Later they might find it interesting to note that the great minds
of the past had an occasional inkling of the reality.
The economic and social world was cleft and shattered by the series
of events beginning in 1914. How confidently can the future historian turn
to the economic writings of the war and post-war periods for an illuminating
analysis of the actual development of economic forces and their social
political repercussions? The layman believes that the historian will find that
the writings of economists offer the least fruitful material for his purposes.
The layman thinks that the economist has been not very helpful in
clearing up the issues raised by the late depression. He thinks that the
economist has followed the time-honored precept: "If you haven't got
what the customer wants, throw a handful of statistics in his eyes."
Of course the layman is uninformed and unfair. It goes without saying
that he greatly under-estimates the actual contribution of the economists
to the interpretation of the problems of the day. In one point, however, the
layman appears to have justice on his side. The economist has not been
active enough, responsible enough, well enough organized, to bring forward
his findings on emergency situations before the moment for action has
gone by. The economist has refused to pass judgment on the basis of data
that are only ninety per cent adequate, although the practical affairs of
the world must necessarily be conducted on a much less adequate basis
than that. In spite of the fact that his material is always imperfect, he has
allowed himself to be controlled, in too great measure, by academic perfectionism.
In spite of his recognition of the fugitive character of authority in
the social sciences, he is unwilling to take a chance that might weaken his
authority.

Therefore politics, which must act when the crisis presses, acts for the
most part without benefit of the services of the economists. With due
credit to the economists who composed the original "brain trust," we must
still admit that the policies grouped together under the term "New Deal"
have been little influenced by the professional economist. The economists
were slow to realize the need for action, and were inclined to hold back and
let the politicians assume all the responsibility. We saw, in the making,
measures that responded to an immediate need, but were full of imperfections.
We saw other measures that should never have been adopted, but we
held our fire until after the enemy column had passed. This the lay public
resents.

But are we as scientists responsible for applying ourselves to the immediate
need? Is it not the glory of science that it holds aloof from the transient
emergency and discovers principles that have worked through long periods,
and will still be operating after the dust of the present occasion has cleared
away?

It is possible that the physical sciences may develop independently of


### ---Economics-1937-0-03.txt---
urgent present needs. The course of development of the social sciences
exhibits no such independence of the course of actual events. We have
moved from practical problem to practical problem ever since the first
mercantilist writers tried to clarify the rules of foreign trade and the
physiocrats sought release from a system of taxation and regulation that
was destroying the basis of a civilization. Today, too, the greater part of
our economic thinking revolves around the problems of the day. When we
shall have worked through the data of war and post-war adjustment, of
depression and recovery, every part of our system of thought, even to the
most refined theory, will have undergone modification.
The economist cannot justly be criticized as aloof to the issues of the time.
Where he may fairly be criticized lies in the slowness of his response.
There is too long a lag between the questions put to him and the answers
he works out. In a slow moving world like that of the nineteenth century
this perhaps made little difference. In a world undergoing transition the
answers may come too late to be of value.

Collectively the economists of today represent an incomparably greater
mass of trained thinking power than those of an earlier world. The public
holds them responsible, collectively, for applying this power promptly to
the issues of the time, that the inevitable adjustments of a period of transition
may be made without unnecessary friction and waste. But we are not
organized to carry a collective responsibility. We alone are left of the era of
rugged individualism, each staking his own claim and exploiting it or
neglecting it as he pleases.

The time has come when the economists need to organize themselves
effectively to do the work which society may reasonably require of them.
We shall be organized not indeed to replace the work of the individual
scholar by that of associated groups. Most significant work will always be
done by the scholar working as an individual. But we shall make a real
effort to keep our whole personnel alive to the issues of the time. We shall
know what resources we have for dealing with these issues, and we shall
use our organized moral forces to encourage the full employment of these
resources for the general good.
 ## Economics-1938-0


### ---Economics-1938-0-01.txt---
The program of the American Economic Association this year is an
experiment. Aside from the session this afternoon on Marxian economics,
the program is entirely concerned with problems of savings and investment.
The number of formal papers has been reduced to a minimum,
while the number of round-table meetings has been greatly increased. My
own part in the program is perhaps also in the nature of an experiment
since I am going to discuss a problem of immediate practical importance,
the problem of recovery in the United States. During the last four years,
our recovery from the depression has been less complete than in many
other countries, and now we seem to have taken the initiative in receding
from such recovery as has been made. This unsatisfactory experience demands
explanation, particularly in view of the presence of a variety of
influences of a favorable character. The United States has been comparatively
free from the hazard of war. Our domestic market is the largest
free-trade market in the world. Undoubtedly, also, a larger proportion
of the brains and energy of our people are devoted to business activities
than in other countries-at least than in the countries of western Europe.
Why, then, have we found it exceptionally difficult to restore and maintain
anything approaching full use of our available resources of land, labor
and capital?

Every great depression, as contrasted with minor cyclical recessions,
presents a situation in which considerable and difficult shifts in the employment
of labor and capital are required. This was the case in the
seventies of the last century, for example; and now we have been confronted
with the necessity of developing a situation in which there shall
be an increased output of those manufactured goods and services for which
there is an elastic demand-an increase sufficient to absorb all the unemployed
labor attached to industry and also to draw considerable numbers
from agriculture. Only then will the agricultural problem become readily
manageable. Subjected to this test, the recovery which we have made is
not impressive. Industries producing manufactured consumer goods have
indeed made a fair recovery; but that recovery has been supported in part


### ---Economics-1938-0-02.txt---
by the temporary expedient of liberal government expenditure. Agriculture
is doubtless in better position than four years ago, although its
improvement rests upon the unsatisfactory and somewhat unstable foundation
of resisted output. On the other hand, the industries producing capital
goods have shown little sign of complete recovery, and such moderate
recovery as has been made in rather laggard fashion has recently been
reversed. Clearly it is the development of conditions under which there
shall be a large and maintained increase in the demand for the products
of the heavy industries that is required for recovery. Further expansion in
the consumer-goods industries cannot take place upon a solid foundation
unless it is supported by increased employment in the heavy industries.
It is sometimes said in business circles that nothing more than confidence
is required to induce activity in the production of capital goods. This seems
to me a most superficial view since it is at least quite possible, as has happened
at times in recent years, that a mere wave of confidence will result in
the creation of conditions which will speedily check expansion in this direction.
A widespread advance in costs and prices, for example, in the products
of the heavy industries under the favorable influence of a wave of confidence
would not only be likely to check expansion, but would also create additional
obstacles in the way of subsequent improvement. Much the same
observation may be ventured regarding changes in, or the repeal of, the
undistributed profits tax and the capital gains tax. They would seem to
me to be minor obstacles, the removal of which, however desirable, would
in itself be far from sufficient to bring about recovery.
At this point I cannot resist the temptation to mention another obstacle
in the way of recovery that is also doubtless of secondary importance. I
refer to the growing tendency to rely upon forecasts of business conditions
in the determination of business policies. Were an individual to have his
blood pressure and blood count taken at frequent intervals, surely a very
bad psychological effect would result-similarly with business, when attention
is constantly fixed upon the gyrations of security quotations on our
stock exchange, and upon the various indices of business conditions supplied
by numerous statistical agencies and financial soothsayers. This habit,
I am confident, contributes not a little to accentuate business fluctuations.
It leads to a speeding up of production and the accumulation of inventories
of raw and finished goods when the signal is green, and to precipitate
stoppages when a yellow or red light is indicated. Here, also perhaps, is
found some part of the explanation of short-sighted advances in prices
upon the appearance of an incipient increase in demand and the resultant
contraction of output which follows upon its consequent shrinkage.
I shall not dwell further upon these secondary obstacles to investment,
the number of which could readily be still further enlarged. After all,
something more than the removal of obstacles is needed to bring about a


### ---Economics-1938-0-03.txt---
large and continuing expansion of the capital equipment of the country.
Tendencies and conditions exerting a strong positive influence in this
direction must be present. Were they present, I am confident that the
secondary obstacles which I have indicated would be readily surmounted.
For the investment of capital on a large scale, three influences or conditions
would seem to be essential. They are, first, large supplies of capital
available at low rates; second, relatively low prices for the concrete products
on which investment funds are expended; and, third, and of most importance,
reasonable expectations that there will be a satisfactory demand
from consumers for the additional goods and services resulting from the
investment of adcditional capital.

Our experience during the last few years seems clearly to indicate that
the first of these factors, a large supply of investment funds available at
low cost, does not of itself exert a sufficiently potent influence to yield
activity in the production of capital goods. Some decline in the cost of
capital and of bank credit was an inevitable result of slackened demand
incident to the depression; and this declining tendency of rates has been
accentuated by means of the monetary policies which have been adopted.
It is not possible, however, to reduce rates indefinitely for all uses of capital
by monetary action. Here, as elsewhere, there are rigidities in our economic
structure. Easy money can bring about abnormally low rates for short-time
loans of the highest quality. Easy money also exerts a powerful influence
upon quotations of bonds of the highest class, and a somewhat less potent influence
on bonds of inferior quality. Easy money may also induce rising prices
for equities actively dealt in on stock exchanges; but easy money does not,
in any short period of time at least, affect very much the cost of securing
new capital except for corporations in the highest credit. Moreover, in
the United States, owing in part to our decentralized banking system, the
pervasive influence of easy money even in the case of short-time commercial
loans is considerably less than elsewhere.

Finally, it may be observed that the effect of easy money is obstructed
because of the grave doubts entertained by investors as to the persistence
of low rates brought about chiefly by this means. Over a long period of
time, if there is an abundance of savings relative to investment demand,
the expected rate of return on investments will doubtless decline; but
when the decline in rates is induced by a monetary factor, investors are
properly sceptical as to its persistence and are, therefore, unwilling to
purchase any considerable volume of long-term issues yielding a low fixed
rate of return. While easy money then no doubt exerts some influence
tending to reduce rates of interest, it seems clearly quite inadequate of
itself to create a situation in which there shall be an active demand for the
products of the capital-goods industries.

Looking elsewhere for the failure of the capital-goods industries to


### ---Economics-1938-0-04.txt---
expand, I venture to call attention to two obstacles of a very fundamental
character-imperfect competition and the absence of any close relationship
between price and demand in the case of most of the products of these
industries. Such products as steel and cement are not used singly but in
association with other products. Consequently, a reduction in the price of
any one of them is unlikely to induce any appreciable increase in demand.
Only in the event that a reduction is widespread can it be anticipated that
demand will respond to the price stimulus. Under conditions of pure
competition in the various heavy industries a reduction in prices all round
would surely follow slackened demand, and thus help to create a situation
favorable to its subsequent expansion. Consider, for example, the situation
which would probably have developed had production of the various
products of the heavy industries been conducted by many times the present
number of companies. There would have been cutthroat competition with
disastrous consequences to many; but who can doubt that a situation would
have been created which would ultimately have induced an increased
demand?

I would not suggest that it is either desirable or possible to introduce
conditions of pure competition in the various heavy industries of the
country. The problem must be attacked in some other fashion with the
objective in view of securing by more orderly and less disastrous methods
what might be accomplished under a regime of unfettered competition.
Where the number of producers is limited, the range of choice in the
determination of business policies is widened. Planning of some sort takes
the place of the invisible hand of competition. The problem, therefore, is
to discover the kind of planning which will best serve both the interests
of the heavy industries as well as those of the community. I repeat in "the
interests of the heavy industries as well as those of the community," since
quite obviously resort to restrictions on output have been far from profitable
to the industries concerned.

What I have said about the heavy industries would seem to apply with
very little modification to the policies of various groups of organized
workers. The demand for the labor of any one group of skilled workers
is not greatly increased by anything that the group may do in the matter of
wage rates. It is only a general reduction of wage rates of all the groups
of skilled workers that work in association in producing a given product
that can be expected to exert a stimulating influence on demand. A reduction,
for example, of the wage rates of bricklayers will do little to induce
demand unless it is accompanied by a corresponding reduction of wage
rates in all or at least in a large number of the various building trades.
Moreover, even a general reduction in wage rates in the building trades
may be counteracted by an advance in prices of building materials. In


### ---Economics-1938-0-05.txt---
these circumstances it is unreasonable to look for stimulation of business
through an initial reduction in wage scales.

As I look at the matter, both business policies and labor policies during
the last four years have impeded the development of a demand for the
products of the capital-goods industries-policies which, until recently in
all events, have apparently been regarded with unconcern, if not with
favor, by the Government in Washington. It would serve no useful purpose
to attempt to apportion the responsibility attaching to these three
parties in interest. It seems far wiser to attempt to indicate what business,
labor and the Government might reasonably be expected to do in order
to bring about the desired result of an increased demand for capital goods.
It is clearly a situation in which enterprise and risk-taking are required;
and for this reason I venture to think that the initiative should come from
business rather than from labor or the Government.
Until the advent of the current recession, it was perhaps not unreasonable
to anticipate that complete recovery would come of itself. In view of the
expectation of a rapid upward surge of prices of an inflationary character
for which some economists are in part responsible, it is not surprising that
prices were advanced in many lines upon the appearance of a slight increase
in demand, and that no vigorous efforts were made to check a rapid upward
advance in labor costs. Where there is a general eagerness to advance
prices, there is obviously no logical ground for the retention of prevailing
wage scales. It should now be evident, however, that a higher level of
prices through monetary means alone is unlikely to occur in the near future
and almost certain not to be maintained. An upward movement of prices
requires, if it is to be maintained, something approaching steady full
employment of labor. Rising prices are rather a result of activity than a
cause.

Finally, it may be noted that the attitude of the Government has now
become more favorable to an increase in the volume of production through
a reduction in costs and prices where it seems reasonable to anticipate
that an increased demand would thereby be stimulated. In these circumstances
then, it seems that the time is ripe for positive action on the part
of those concerned with the conduct of the capital-goods industries. I do
not suggest that much could certainly be accomplished through price reductions
of particular products, although action on the part of certain
conspicuous factors in the heavy industries might serve to start the ball
rolling; but, given the existing organization of the heavy industries, I
feel certain that concerted action would be far more effective. A general
reduction of prices to the point at which a modest profit would still be
realized as production approached full capacity would seem to me to
provide the basis for a general expansion in demand. Very likely at this


### ---Economics-1938-0-06.txt---
point the specter of the Sherman Anti-Trust law rises in the minds of
many as an insuperable obstacle. I question very much, however, whether
the anti-trust law should be regarded as a serious impediment to this concerted
action in view of the present attitude of the Washington authorities.
After all, concerted action designed to reduce prices and increase demand
is a very different thing from concerted action directed toward maintaining,
to say nothing of establishing, an increase in prices.
Following the adoption of a concerted policy directed toward bringing
about an increase in volume, the industries concerned would be in a far
better position than now to insist upon an increase in efficiency and perhaps
also a reduction in some existing wage scales; but certainly nothing in
this direction can reasonably be expected so long as the policy of the
various industries is precisely that of the less intelligent labor leadersthat
of making adjustments to demand almost exclusively through reduced
output.

I now turn to the question whether there is reasonable ground for
anticipating a large and maintained increase in the demand for the products
of the capital-goods industries in the event that prices were quite materially
reduced. In the case of the familiar uses for additional capital, all of our
past experience indicates that here a little, and there a little, are opportunities
for employing additional capital in improved and enlarged equipment
provided costs are low-both the cost of securing capital and the
cost of the concrete things in the purchase of which the funds are expended.
To increase and improve facilities for the production of greater quantities
of the consumer goods and services which we have been producing in the
past, however, may readily lead to over-development. Moreover, it is not
to be anticipated that there will be any large absorption of capital in some
of the directions where the most considerable investments were made in
the twenties. It is not probable, for example, that lower prices would induce
in the near future any very considerable increase in the construction
of office buildings or high rental apartment houses. In these directions
development was carried unduly far in the twenties and presumably we
have not yet grown up to the existing supply. Even under existing conditions
of costs of materials and labor, there is clearly a sufficiently elastic demand
for electric power to induce a very considerable absorption of capital once
the utility policy of the Government has been determined on a basis reasonably
fair both to the public and to the companies. With lower costs of
construction materials, no doubt still further expansion in this field could
be expected. In the case of the railroads, a large but less considerable
absorption of capital may be anticipated even though the stimulus of an
elastic demand is lacking. Wise railroad investment would seem to be
limited to such expenditure as will definitely reduce costs of operation.
In view of the abundance of savings seeking investment, we cannot,


### ---Economics-1938-0-07.txt---
however, anticipate that the miscellaneous demand for capital together with
that of the utility companies and the railroads will be sufficient to absorb
for an indefinite period all available funds and fully employ the capitalgoods
industries. There is, however, one obvious product for which there
is an elastic demand of vast proportions. I refer, of course, to better
shelter for the mass of people in the United States. Were this provided,
it would further induce a large subsequent demand for appropriate house
furnishings of many kinds. Hitherto efforts to meet this demand have
been limited almost entirely to measures directed toward reducing the
costs of financing and modernizing financial arrangements. They alone
have not proved effective and it mayhap be questioned whether a reduction
in the price of building materials, even if accompanied by some increase
in efficiency in building labor and reduction in building wage rates, would
be sufficient to secure the maximum of improvement in shelter which is
feasible. In addition, we need the creation of business organizations producing
shelter on a large scale, both for sale and for rent. This is essential
because there are many costs involved in the production of shelter in
addition to the costs of materials and labor directly employed and the
financial costs. Business organizations for building and servicing low-cost
houses have not been developed in this country to an extent comparable
to that in many other countries. Because of this lack of organization, we
cannot expect rapid expansion in this field. It does, however, clearly afford
the most promising opportunity for the investment of capital in the future
with a resultant improvement in the standard of living of estimable value.
That an elastic demand for better shelter exists cannot be doubted. To
meet this demand, business organization, as well as low material prices,
efficient labor and adequate finance are needed.
 ## Economics-1939-0


### ---Economics-1939-0-01.txt---
The main papers and the round tables in this year's program, like those
of a year ago, concern a single, though broadly inclusive, subject. A year ago
we considered the various factors which influence fluctuations in the rate of
investment, income and employment. In selecting the topic for this year
we have turned away in large measure from the ever-present and all-absorbing
problem of cyclical fluctuations and have set ourselves the task of
probing the problems of structural change in our economy, involving among
other things also how these structural changes in various countries have
affected the cycle itself. In the main sessions and in the round-table discussions
various aspects of "The Changing American Economy" are considered-
changes in the structure and functioning of our economic institutions.
The topic is, however, so vast that even in a meeting as large as ours
it is quite impossible to include all aspects pertinent to the subject; and
doubtless many members will feel that important segments of the problem
have been overlooked by our program committee.

One may ask: "Is there any special reason why in the year 1938 we
should devote our attention as economists to the general subject "The
Changing Character of the American Economy"? Throughout the modern
era, ceaseless change has been the law of economic life. Every period is in
some sense a period of transition. The swift stream of events in the last
quarter century offers, however, overwhelming testimony in support of the
thesis that the economic order of the western world is undergoing in this
generation a structural change no less basic and profound in character than
that transformation of economic life and institutions which we are wont to
designate loosely by the phrase "the Industrial Revolution." We are passing,
so to speak, over a divide which separates the great era of growth and
expansion of the nineteenth century from an era which no man, unwilling
to embark on pure conjecture, can as yet characterize with clarity or precision.
We are moving swiftly out of the order in which those of our generation
were brought up, into no one knows what.


### ---Economics-1939-0-02.txt---
Overwhelmingly significant, but as yet all too little considered by
economists, is the profound change which we are currently undergoing in
the rate of population growth. In the decade of the nineteen-twenties the
population of the United States increased by 16,000,000-an absolute
growth equal to that of the pre-war decade and in excess of any other decade
in our history. In the current decade we are adding only half this number
to our population, and the best forecasts indicate a decline to a third
in the decade which we are about to enter.

Inadequate as the data are, it appears that the prodigious growth of
population in the nineteenth century was something unique in history. Gathering
momentum with the progress of modern science and transportation,
the absolute growth in western Europe mounted decade by decade until the
great World War; and in the United States it reached the highest level, as
I have just noted, in the post-war decade. The upward surge began with
relatively small accretions which rapidly swelled into a flood. But the advancing
tide has come to a sudden halt and the accretions are dwindling
toward zero.

Thus, with the prospect of actual contraction confronting us, already we
are in the midst of a drastic decline in the rate of population growth. Whatever
the future decades may bring, this present fact is already upon us; and
it behooves us as economists to take cognizance of the significance of this
revolutionary change in our economic life.

Schooled in the traditions of the Malthusian theory, economists, thinking
in terms of static economics, have typically placed an optimistic interpretation
upon the cessation of population growth. This indeed is also the interpretation
suggested by the National Resources Committee which recently
has issued an exhaustive statistical inquiry into current and prospective
changes in population growth. In a fundamental sense this conclusion is, I
think, thoroughly sound; for it can scarcely be questioned that a continued
growth of population at the rate experienced in the nineteenth century
would rapidly present insoluble problems. But it would be an unwarranted
optimism to deny that there are implicit in the current drastic shift from
rapid expansion to cessation of population growth, serious structural maladjustments
which can be avoided or mitigated only if economic policies, appropriate
to the changed situation, are applied. Indeed in this shift must be
sought a basic cause of not a few of the developments in our changing
economy.

Adam Smith regarded growth of population as at once a consequence and
a cause of economic progress. Increasing division of labor would, he argued,
bring about greater productivity, and this would furnish an enlarged revenue
and stock, from which would flow an enlarged wages fund, an increased
demand for labor, higher wages, and so economic conditions favorable for
population growth. Now a growing population, by widening the market and


### ---Economics-1939-0-03.txt---
by fostering inventiveness, in turn facilitated, he thought, division of labor
and so the production of wealth. Thus he arrived at an optimistic conclusion.
Population growth, he held, stimulated progress and this in turn stimulated
further growth and expansion. In contrast, the pessimistic analyses of
Malthus and Ricardo stressed the limitation of natural resources and the
danger of an increasing population's pressing down the margin of cultivation
to a point at which real income would be reduced to a bare subsistence
level. In this static analysis the more dynamic approach of Adam Smith was
quite forgotten. If we wish to get a clear insight into the economic consequences
of the current decline in population growth, it is necessary to return
to the suggestion of Adam Smith and to explore more fully the causal interconnection
between economic progress, capital formation and population
growth.

Economic analysis from the earliest development of our science has been
concerned with the role played by economic progress. Various writers have
included under this qaption different things; but for our purpose we may say
that the constituent elements of economic progress are (a) inventions, (b)
the discovery and development of new territory and new resources, and (c)
the growth of population. Each of these in turn, severally and in combination,
has opened investment outlets and caused a rapid growth of capital
formation.

The earlier economists were concerned chiefly with the effect of economic
progress upon the volume of output, or in other words, upon the level of
real income. For them economic progress affected the economic life mainly,
if not exclusively, in terms of rising productivity and higher real income per
capita.

Not until the very end of the nineteenth century did an extensive literature
arise which stressed the role of economic progress as a leading, if not the
main, factor causing fluctuations in employment, output, and income.
Ricardo had indeed seen that there was some relation between economic
progress and economic instability; but it was left for Wicksell, Spiethoff,
Schumpeter, Cassel, and Robertson to elaborate the thesis that economic
fluctuations are essentially a function of economic progress.
More recently the role of economic progress in the maintenance of full
employment of the productive resources has come under consideration. The
earlier economists assumed that the economic system tended automatically
to produce full employment of resources. Some unemployment there was
periodically, owing to the fluctuations incident to the business cycle; but in
the upswing phase of the cyclical movement the economy was believed to
function in a manner tending to bring about full recovery-maximum output
and employment. This view was inspired by a century in which the
forces of economic progress were powerful and strong, in which investment
outlets were numerous and alluring. Spiethoff saw clearly that technological


### ---Economics-1939-0-04.txt---
progress, the development of new industries, the discovery of new resources,
the opening of new territory were the basic causes of the boom, which in
turn was the progenitor of depression. Indeed he believed that once the main
resources of the globe had been discovered and exploited, once the whole
world had been brought under the sway of the machine technique, the leading
disturbing factors which underlie the fluctuations of the cycle would
have spent their force and an era of relative economic stability would ensue.
But he did not raise the question whether such stability would be achieved
at a full-employment and full-income level.

The business cycle was par excellence the problem of the nineteenth century.
But the main problem of our times, and particularly in the United
States, is the problem of full employment. Yet paradoxical as it may seem,
the nineteenth century was little concerned with, and understood but dimly,
the character of the business cycle. Indeed, so long as the problem of full
employment was not pressing, it was not necessary to worry unduly about
the temporary unemployment incident to the swings of the cycle. Not until
the problem of full employment of our productive resources from the longrun,
secular standpoint was upon us, were we compelled to give serious consideration
to those factors and forces in our economy which tend to make
business recoveries weak and anaemic and which tend to prolong and deepen
the course of depressions. This is the essence of secular stagnation-sick recoveries
which die in their infancy and depressions which feed on themselves
and leave a hard and seemingly immovable core of unemployment.
In every great crisis the struggle of contending groups maneuvering for
an advantageous position amidst rapid change whips up the froth and fury
of political and social controversy. Always there is present the temptation
to explain the course of events in terms of the more superficial phenomena
which are frequently manifestations rather than causes of change. It is the
peculiar function of the economist however to look deeper into the underlying
economic realities and to discover in these, if possible, the causes of
the most obstinate problem of our time-the problem of under-employment.
Fundamental to an understanding of this problem are the changes in the
"external" forces, if I may so describe them, which underlie economic progress-
changes in the character of technological innovations, in the availability
of new territory, and in the growth of population.
The expanding economy of the last century called forth a prodigious
growth of capital formation. So much was this the case, that this era in
history has by common consent been called the capitalistic period. No one
disputes the thesis that without this vast accumulation of capital we should
never have witnessed the great rise in the standard of living achieved since
the beginning of the Industrial Revolution. But it is not the effect of capital
formation upon real income to which I wish especially to direct attention.
What I wish to stress in this paper is rather the role played by the process


### ---Economics-1939-0-05.txt---
of capital formation in securing at each point in this ascending income scale
fairly full employment of the productive resources and therefore the maximum
income possible under the then prevailing level of technological development.
For it is an indisputable fact that the prevailing economic system
has never been able to reach reasonably full employment or the attainment
of its currently realizable real income without making large investment expenditures.
The basis for this imperious economic necessity has been thoroughly
explored in the last half century in the great literature beginning with
Tougan-Baranowsky and Wicksell on saving and investment. I shall not attempt
any summary statement of this analysis. Nor is this necessary; for I
take it that it is accepted by all schools of current economic thought that full
employment and the maximum currently attainable income level cannot be
reached in the modern free enterprise economy without a volume of investment
expenditures adequate to fill the gap between consumption expenditures
and that level of income which could be achieved were all the factors
employed. In this somewhat truistic statement I hope I have succeeded in
escaping a hornets' nest of economic controversy.

Thus we may postulate a consensus on the thesis that in the absence of a
positive program designed to stimulate consumption, full employment of
the productive resources is essentially a function of the vigor of investment
activity. Less agreement can be claimed for the role played by the rate of
interest on the volume of investment. Yet few there are who believe that in
a period of investment stagnation an abundance of loanable funds at low
rates of interest is alone adequate to produce a vigorous flow of real investment.
I am increasingly impressed with the analysis made by Wicksell who
stressed the prospective rate of profit on new investment as the active, dominant,
and controlling factor, and who viewed the rate of interest as a
passive factor, lagging behind the profit rate. This view is moreover in accord
with competent business judgment." It is true that it is necessary to
look beyond the mere cost of interest charges to the indirect effect of the
interest rate structure upon business expectations. Yet all in all, I venture to
assert that the role of the rate of interest as a determinant of investment has
occupied a place larger than it deserves in our thinking. If this be granted,
we are forced to regard the factors which underlie economic progress as the
dominant determinants of investment and employment.
A growth in real investment may take the form either of a deepening of
capital or of a widening of capital, as Hawtrey has aptly put it. The deepening
process means that more capital is used per unit of output, while the
widening process means that capital formation grows pari passu with the


### ---Economics-1939-0-06.txt---
increase in the output of final goods. If the ratio of real capital to real
income remains constant, there is no deepening of capital; but if this ratio
is constant and real income rises, then there is a widening of capital.
According to Douglas2 the growth of real capital formation in England
from 1875 to 1909 proceeded at an average rate of two per cent per annum;
and the rate of growth of capital formation in the United States from 1890
to 1922 was four per cent per annum. The former is less than the probable
rate of increase of output in England, while the latter is somewhat in excess
of the annual rise of production in the United States. Thus, during the last
fifty years or more, capital formation for each economy as a whole has apparently
consisted mainly of a widening of capital. Surprising as it may
seem, as far as we may judge from such data as are available, there has been
little, if any, deepening of capital. The capital stock has increased approximately
in proportion to real income. This is also the conclusion of Gustav
Cassel;3 while Keynes4 thinks that real capital formation in England may
have very slightly exceeded the rise in real income in the period from 1860
to the World War. If this be true, it follows that, in terms of the time element
in production, which is the very essence of the capital concept, our system
of production is little more capitalistic now than fifty or seventy-five
years ago. It requires, in other words, a period of employment of our productive
resources no longer than formerly to reproduce the total capital stock.
The "waiting," so to speak, embodied in our capital accumulations is no
greater today than half a century or more ago. Capital has indeed grown
relative to labor. Thus the technical coefficient of production, with respect
to capital, has increased. While this indicates a more intensive application of
capital relative to the other factors, it does not necessarily imply any deepening
of capital.

In important areas the capital stock has not increased significantly even in
relation to population. This is notably true in the service industries. Moreover,
in the field of housing real capital has little more than kept pace with
population growth. In manufacturing as a whole it is certainly true that real
capital formation has not only far outstripped population but has also risen
more rapidly than physical product. The studies of Douglas for the United
States and Australia show that real fixed capital invested in manufacturing
increased more rapidly than physical output of manufactured goods. On the
other hand, Carl Snyder's5 data, which run in terms of value of invested
capital and value of product, indicate that for important separate industries,
such as textiles, iron and steel, and petroleum, capital has grown little or no
faster than output since about 1890. With respect to the automobile industry,


### ---Economics-1939-0-07.txt---
according to his findings, capital investment has risen no more rapidly
than value of product, while in the electrical industries, invested capital increased
at a slower rate than output after 1907. Considering the economy as
a whole, including fields of economic activity other than manufacturing,
there is no good evidence that the advance of technique has resulted in recent
decades, certainly not in any significant measure, in any deepening of
capital. Apparently, once the machine technique has been developed in anyfl
field, further mechanization is likely to result in an increase in output at'
least proportional to and often in excess of the net additions to real capital.
Though the deepening process is all the while going on in certain areas, elsewhere
capital-saving inventions are reducing the ratio of capital to output.
In order to get some insight into the effect of population growth upon
capital formation, it is necessary to consider the role it plays in conjunction
with other factors in the widening and deepening process. The widening
of capital is a function of an increase in final output, which in turn is due
partly to an increase in population and partly to an increase in per capita
productivity, arising from causes other than a larger use of capital per unit
of output. On the other hand, the deepening of capital results partly from
cost-reducing changes in technique, partly (though this is probably a much
less significant factor) from a reduction in the rate of interest, and partly
from changes in the character of the output as a whole, with special reference
to the amount of capital required to produce it.

Now the rate of population growth must necessarily play an important
role in determining the character of the output; in other words, the composition
of the flow of final goods. Thus a rapidly growing population will
demand a much larger per capita volume of new residential building construction
than will a stationary population. A stationary population with its
larger proportion of old people may perhaps demand more personal services;
and the composition of consumer demand will have an important influence
on the quantity of capital required. The demand for housing calls for large
capital outlays, while the demand for personal services can be met without
making large investment expenditures. It is therefore not unlikely that a
shift from a rapidly growing population to a stationary or declining one
may so alter the composition of the final flow of consumption goods that
the ratio of capital to output as a whole will tend to decline.
In the beginning stages of modern capitalism both the deepening and
the widening processes of capital formation were developing side by side.
But in its later stages the deepening process, taking the economy as a whole,
rapidly diminished. And now with the rapid cessation of population growth,
even the widening process may slow down. Moreover it is possible that
capital-saving inventions may cause capital formation in many industries to
lag behind the increase in output.

An interesting problem for statistical research would be to determine the


### ---Economics-1939-0-08.txt---
proportion of investment in the nineteenth century which could be attributed
(a) to population growth, (b) to the opening up of new territory and the
discovery of new resources, and (c) to technical innovations. Such an analysis
it has not been possible for me to make, and I shall venture only a few
rough estimates together with some qualitative judgments. With respect to
population growth some insight into the problem may perhaps be gained by
considering first the role of population growth in the rise of aggregate real
income. The various estimates agree that the annual rate of growth of physical
output up to the World War was roughly three per cent in western
Europe and nearly four per cent in the United States. Of this average annual
increase something less than half of the three per cent increase in western
Europe can be attributed to population growth, while something more than
half of the annual increase in the United States can be assigned to the
increase in the labor supply. Thus it appears that per capita output has increased
both in western Europe and in the United States at approximately
one and one-half per cent per annum. This increase can be attributed mainly
to changes in technique and to the exploitation of new natural resources.
We have already noted that capital formation has progressed at about the
same rate as the rise in aggregate output. Thus, as a first approximation, we
may say that the growth of population in the last half of the nineteenth
century was responsible for about forty per cent of the total volume of capital
formation in western Europe and about sixty per cent of the capital formation
in the United States. If this is even approximately correct, it will be seen
what an important outlet for investment is being closed by reason of the
current rapid decline in population growth.

Obviously the growth of population affects capital formation most directly
in the field of construction, especially residential building. From
decade to decade the increase in the number of dwellings had maintained a
close relation to the increase in population. In the decade of the twenties,
however, the increase in houses ran about twenty-five per cent in excess of
previous decennial increases in relation to population. According to Kuznets,
during the seven prosperous years 1923 to 1929, a quarter of the net capital
formation was residential building. But the effect of population growth on
capital formation is, of course, felt in other spheres as well. This is notably
true of all the various municipal and public utilities, and also of the manufacture
of essential consumers' goods.

An interesting excursus would lead us into a consideration of the problem
how far an increase in population itself contributed to a more efficient
technique and so was in part responsible for the rise in per capita real income.
According to the older Malthusian view, the growth of population
would act counter to the effect of technological progress upon per capita
productivity, and would thus slow down the rise in per capita real income.
If this were correct, population growth considered by itself alone would


### ---Economics-1939-0-09.txt---
tend to check the rise in per capita consumption, and this in turn, via the
so-called Relation, would affect the volume of capital formation. According
to the optimum population theory, however, it may not infrequently be the
case, and indeed probably was during the greater part of the nineteenth
century, that population growth itself facilitated mass production methods
and accelerated the progress of technique. If this be correct, population
growth was itself responsible for a part of the rise in per capita real income,
and this, via the influence of a rising consumption upon investment, stimulated
capital formation. Thus it is quite possible that population growth may
have acted both directly and indirectly to stimulate the volume of capital
formation.

It is not possible, I think, to make even an approximate estimate of the
proportion of the new capital created in the nineteenth century which was a
direct consequence of the opening up of new territory. The development of
new countries was indeed so closely intertwined with the growth of population
that it would be difficult to avoid double counting. What proportion
of new capital formation in the United States went each year into the western
frontier we do not know, but it must have been very considerable. Apparently
about one-fourth of the total capital accumulations of England were invested
abroad by 1914, and one-seventh of those of France.
These figures, while only suggestive, point unmistakably to the conclusion
that the opening of new territory and the growth of population
were together responsible for a very large fraction-possibly somewhere
near one-half-of the total volume of new capital formation in the nineteenth
century. These outlets for new investment are rapidly being closed.
The report on Limits of Land Settlement by President Isaiah Bowman and
others may be regarded as conclusive in its findings that there are no important
areas left for exploitation and settlement. So far as population is concerned,
that of western Europe has already virtually reached a standstill;
but that in eastern Europe, notably in Russia, is still growing, and so also
is that in the Orient. And much of this area will probably experience a
considerable industrialization. But it is not yet clear 'how far the mature
industrial countries will participate in this development through capital
export. Russia still has a long way to go before she becomes completely
industrialized; but foreign capital is not likely to play any significant role in
this process. India will offer some opportunity for British investment, but
the total is likely to be small relative to the volume of British foreign investments
in the nineteenth century. China and the Orient generally offer, in
view of the present and prospective turmoil in that area, relatively meager
investment opportunities. At all events, no one is likely to challenge the
statement that foreign investment will in the next fifty years play an incomparably
smaller role than was the case in the nineteenth century.
Tlhus the outlets for new investment are rapidly narrowing down to those


### ---Economics-1939-0-10.txt---
created by the progress of technology. To be sure, the progress of technology
itself played in the nineteenth century a decisive role in the opening of new
territory and as a stimulus to population growth. But while technology can
facilitate the opening of new territory, it cannot create a new world or make
the old one bigger than it is. And while the advance of science, by reducing
the death rate, was a major cause of the vast nineteenth-century increase in
population, no important further gains in this direction can possibly offset
the prevailing low birth rate. Thus the further progress of science can
operate to open investment outlets only through its direct influence on the
technique of production.

We are thus rapidly entering a world in which we must fall back upon a
more rapid advance of technology than in the past if we are to find private investment
opportunities adequate to maintain full employment. Should we
accept the advice of those who would declare a moratorium on invention and
technical progress, this one remaining avenue for private investment would
also be closed. There can be no greater error in the analysis of the economic
trends of our times than that which finds in the advance of technology,
broadly conceived, a major cause of unemployment. It is true that we cannot
discount the problem of technological unemployment, a problem which may
be intensified by the apparently growing importance of capital-saving inventions.
But, on the other side, we cannot afford to neglect that type of
innovation which creates new industries and which thereby opens new outlets
for real investment. The problem of our generation is, above all, the
problem of inadequate private investment outlets. What we need is not a
slowing down in the progress of science and technology, but rather an
acceleration of that rate.

Of first-rate importance is the development of new industries. There is
certainly no basis for the assumption that these are a thing of the past. But
there is equally no basis for the assumption that we can take for granted
the rapid emergence of new industries as rich in investment opportunities
as the railroad, or more recently the automobile, together with all the related
developments, including the construction of public roads, to which it gave
rise. Nor is there any basis, either in history or in theory, for the assumption
that the rise of new industries proceeds inevitably at a uniform pace. The
growth of modern industry has not come in terms of millions of small
increments of change giving rise to a smooth and even development. Characteristically
it has come by gigantic leaps and bounds. Very often the change
can best be described as discontinuous, lumpy, and jerky, as indeed D. H.
Robertson has so vividly done. And when a revolutionary new industry like
the railroad or the automobile, after having initiated in its youth a powerful
upward surge of investment activity, reaches maturity and ceases to grow,
as all industries finally must, the whole economy must experience a profound
stagnation, unless indeed new developments take its place. It is not


### ---Economics-1939-0-11.txt---
enough that a mature industry continues its activity at a high level on a
horizontal plane. The fact that new railroad mileage continued to be built
at about the same rate through the seventies, eighties and nineties was not
sufficient. It is the cessation of growth which is disastrous. It is in connection
with the growth, maturity and decline of great industries that the principle
of acceleration operates with peculiar force. And when giant new industries
have spent their force, it may take a long time before something else of
equal magnitude emerges. In fact nothing has emerged in the decade in
which we are now living. This basic fact, together with the virtual cessation
of public investment by state and local governmental bodies, as indicated by
a decline of $2,000,000,000 in their net public debt since 1932, explains in
large measure the necessary rise in federal expenditures.6
Spiethoff was quite right when he argued that a vigorous recovery is not
just spontaneously born from the womb of the preceding depression. Some
small recovery must indeed arise sooner or later merely because of the growing
need for capital replacement. But a full-fledged recovery calls for something
more than the mere expenditure of depreciation allowances. It requires
a large outlay on new investment, and this awaits the development of great
new industries and new techniques. But such new developments are not
currently available in adequate volume. It is my growing conviction that the
combined effect of the decline in population growth, together with the failure
of any really important innovations of a magnitude sufficient to absorb
large capital outlays, weighs very heavily as an explanation for the failure
of the recent recovery to reach full employment. Other factors are certainly
significant and important, particularly our failure to control the cost structure
and to grapple effectively with specific situations, such as those presented
by the railroads and by building construction.

We have noted that the approaching cessation of population growth
and the disappearance of new territory for settlement and exploitation may
cut off a half or more of the investment outlets which we were wont to
make in the past. We are thus compelled to fall back upon that measure of
capital formation which is associated with the advance of technique and the
rise in per capita output. But current institutional developments are restricting
even this outlet. The growing power of trade unions and trade associations,
the development of monopolistic competition, of rivalry for the
market through expensive persuasion and advertising, instead of through
price competition, are factors which have rightly of late commanded much
attention among economists. There is, moreover, the tendency to block the
advance of technical progress by the shelving of patents.
Under vigorous price competition, new cost-reducing techniques were
compulsorily introduced even though the scrapping of obsolete but undepreciated


### ---Economics-1939-0-12.txt---
machinery entailed a capital loss. But under the monopoly
principle of obsolescence new machines will not be introduced until the
undepreciated value of the old machine will at least be covered by the
economies of the new technique. Thus progress is slowed down, and outlets
for new capital formation, available under a more ruthless competitive
society, are cut off. Capital losses which could not be avoided under rigorous
price competition can be and are avoided under an economic system more
closely integrated by intercorporate association and imperfect competition.
If we are to save the one remaining outlet for private capital formation,
deliberate action of a far bolder character than hitherto envisaged must be
undertaken in order to make the price system and free enterprise sufficiently
responsive to permit at least that measure of capital formation to which the
rate of technological progress had accustomed us in the past.
Yet even though this much were achieved, it is necessary to recognize that
such a rate of progress would not provide sufficient investment outlets to
give us full employment of our resources. With a stationary population we
could maintain as rapid a rise in per capita real income as that experienced in
the past, by making annually only half the volume of new investment to
which we have been accustomed. A volume of investment adequate to provide
full employment could give us an annual percentage increase in per
capita output greatly in excess of any hitherto attained.
Various measures have been offered to maintain full employment in the
absence of an adequate rate of technological progress and of the development
of new industries. Consumption may be strengthened by the relief
from taxes which drain off a stream of income which otherwise would flow
into consumption channels. Public investment may usefully be made in human
and natural resources and in consumers' capital goods of a collective
character designed to serve the physical, recreational and cultural needs of
the community as a whole. But we cannot afford to be blind to the unmistakable
fact that a solution along these lines raises serious problems of economic
workability and political administration.

How far such a program, whether financed by taxation or by borrowing,
can be carried out without adversely affecting the system of free enterprise is
a problem with which economists, I predict, will have to wrestle in the
future far more intensely than in the past. Can a rising public debt owned
internally be serviced by a scheme of taxation which will not adversely affect
the marginal return on new investment or the marginal cost of borrowing?
Can any tax system, designed to increase the propensity to consume by means
of a drastic change in income distribution, be devised which will not progressively
encroach on private investment?7

As so often in economic life, we are confronted by a dilemma. Continued


### ---Economics-1939-0-13.txt---
unemployment on a vast scale, resulting from inadequate private investment
outlets, could be expected sooner or later to lead straight into an all-round
regimented economy. But so also, by an indirect route and a slower process,
might a greatly extended program of public expenditures. And from the
standpoint of economic workability the question needs to be raised how
far such a program can be carried out in a democratic society without raising
the cost structure to a level which prevents full employment. Thus a challenge
is presented to all those countries which have not as yet submitted to
the yoke of political dictatorship. In one of our round tables we are discussing
divergencies in the success of governmental spending in democratic
countries and in totalitarian states. Totalitarian states have the great advantage
that they can rigorously check the advance of costs, including wage
rates, while engaging in an expansionist program of public investment.
Democratic countries cannot in modern times escape from the influence
exerted by organized groups upon the operation of the price system. From
the standpoint of the workability of the system of free enterprise, there
emerges the problem of sovereignty in democratic countries confronted
in their internal economies with powerful groups-entrepreneurial and
wage-earning-which have robbed the price system of that impersonal and
non-political character idealized in the doctrine of laissez-faire. It remains
still to be seen whether political democracy can in the end survive the
disappearance of the automatic price system.

Thus we are confronted with various alternatives. On the one side, there
is the proposal to risk a negative governmental policy in the expectation
that the recuperative forces to which we have long been accustomed will,
in the absence of political interference, re-assert themselves. On the other
side, there is the proposal to go forward under full steam with unrestrained
governmental expansion until full employment has been reached. Those
who have no doubts whatever about the correctness of their economic
analyses will not hesitate to make a bold choice of policy. But others, impressed
with the stubborn economic realities of a rapidly changing world, on
the one side, and the frailties of human nature in its power to make the
appropriate adaptation to change, on the other, will not be so sure, and
may prefer to take a course that risks neither a negative policy nor a breakdown
of collective management.

With respect to the permissible role of public expenditures, I should like
to suggest that the problem might usefully be posed in terms of the national
income. In 1929 our national income was about $80,000,000,000. Taking
account of the prevailing lower level of prices, on the one side, and the
additions to the labor force, on the other, we may perhaps set the income
which should currently give us approximately full employment at about
$80,000,000,000. At the bottom of the Great Depression the national income
had fallen from $80,000,000,000 to $40,000,000,000. So drastic


### ---Economics-1939-0-14.txt---
a decline in the national income we could not again afford to risk. The consequences
for the vitality and workability of the economic system are too
serious to contemplate. I suggest-the figures are only a rough approximation-
that we cannot afford to let our income fall materially below
$65,000,000,000, or say $60,000,000,000 as a minimum. A scale of net
income-creating governmental expenditures adequate to prevent a fall in
income below this level can, it seems to me, scarcely be questioned, and
would currently, I believe, command the support of most economists. As
the national income, however, approaches $70,000,000,000, I suggest that
the net income-creating governmental expenditures ought to be tapered
off. As we approach this income level, the economic situation becomes increasingly
explosive. Bottle-necks begin to appear. Costs rise. Labor aggressively
demands wage increases. Rising costs lead to inventory speculation.
We encounter the familiar vicious spiral of rising costs and rising prices with
growing inefficiency. At this level the spending program becomes relatively
ineffective as a means to raise the real income of the community. This danger
point is clearly reached sooner in a democratic country than in a totalitarian
state. At what precise point it is reached depends upon the degree of discipline
and self-restraint which the various economic groups have achieved
or can achieve under democratic institutions. What I am suggesting is that in
the United States the upper limit of tolerance in terms of social and economic
stresses and strains may be set at around $70,000,000,000. At the
$60,000,000,000 income level we can afford to spend heavily to forestall
any further decline.

The objection will almost certainly be raised that the argument which I
have directed against continued governmental spending to the point of full
employment, could equally well be directed against private investment,
once the upper danger zone has been reached. I should doubt the validity
of this criticism. If the government continues to pour out funds at a lavish
rate, wage-earners and employers alike are prone to take the easy course
which leads to higher costs and higher prices. But if reliance could not be
placed upon a stream of purchasing power external to business itself, we
could expect, I think, a more vigorous resistance to uneconomic cost-raising
demands. Public spending is the easiest of all recovery methods, and therein
lies its danger. If it is carried too far, we neglect to attack those specific
maladjustments without the removal of which we cannot attain a workable
cost-price structure, and therefore we fail to achieve the otherwise available
flow of private investment.

There are no easy answers to the problems that confront us. And because
this is true, economists will not perform their function if they fail to illuminate
the rapidly shifting course of economic development, and through
such neglect unwittingly contribute to a dangerous lag in adjustments to
change. Equally they will not perform their function if they fail to disclose


### ---Economics-1939-0-15.txt---
the possible dangers which lurk in the wake of vastly enlarged governmental
activities. Choices indeed must be made, and scientific analysis and
painstaking research can aid by exploring the probable consequences of
alternative choices. The problems which I have raised offer a challenge to
our profession. The great transition, incident to a rapid decline in population
growth and its impact upon capital formation and the workability of a system
of free enterprise, calls for high scientific adventure along all the
fronts represented by the social science disciplines.
 ## Economics-1940-0


### ---Economics-1940-0-01.txt---
Once upon a time an academic economic theorist, by some freak of fate
not likely to be often repeated, got himself slightly entangled in the machinery
of formulation of government economic policy. What I plan to tell you
tonight reflects largely, though not I hope too explicitly, what the process
of policy-formulation did to his academic theorizing, and what his theorizing
failed to do to the process of policy-formulation.
As an active participant in the policy-making process, the academic
theorist suffers from a number of handicaps more or less peculiar to himself.
For purposes of teaching, or of acceptable writing for his restricted
audience of fellow-theorists, his conclusions are of little importance; and
what matters above all is the rigor and elegance of his manner of reaching
them. For policy, on the other hand, conclusions are vital, and often are
all that is vital. For the purposes of academic theorizing, the premises
the theorist starts from may without serious penalty be arbitrarily selected,
narrowly restricted in range, and purely hypothetical in nature. But the
selection of premises controls the conclusions reached, and for policydetermination
it is therefore vital that all the important variables be
covered by the analysis, and that the conclusions be not affected by the use
of premises which are irrevelant for their purposes or less realistic than
it is possible with the aid of available information to make them. To violate
these rules in policy-making is to be guilty of the grossest irresponsibility.
If he is not to be wholly in the way of the policy-maker, therefore,
the theorist must emerge from his ivory tower,-which is almost as hard
as to return to it.

The theorist's habitual methods of analysis are such as to lead to "right"
or "wrong" answers to manufactured problems, the premises and the
criteria of rightness being so chosen as to make this not only possible but
necessary. For the policy-maker, however, the problems are for the most
part not of his own devising, but are presented to him by outside forces,
in vague and ill-defined fashion, and what he asks of his advisers consists
as much of help in determining what the problems are as of help
in finding solutions for them. The theorist here is likely to find himself
uninformed and unskilled.


### ---Economics-1940-0-02.txt---
The theorist's analysis is ordinarily couched in descriptive as distinguished
from normative terms. If choices as between social values influence
his thought, these choices are largely left implicit in his selection
of premises, and are rarely, and then usually apologetically, expressly
avowed. The policy-maker, however, is rarely satisfied with purely descriptive
analysis. He insists that he be advised not only what will be the objective
consequences of a specific line of action, but whether or not these
are desirable consequences. While he has always some notions of his own
with respect to the values which policy should serve, in my experience he
always demands of his economists that they guide him also in the determination
of what is socially desirable, and he expects the economist to acknowledge
and to display some professional competence in giving such
guidance.

There are always a number of different values to be considered, moreover,
and satisfaction of one often involves disregard of the other. This
makes necessary a sort of weighing process, in which the decision is presumably
made partly on the strength of quantitative information as to the
number of persons affected by alternative courses of action, their economic
status and needs, and so forth, and partly on the basis of a qualitative
ranking of values in terms of some sort of scale of worth. The theorist
as such here also lacks experience. He is hampered, moreover, by his
tendency to dissect the mental processes by which decision is reached in
such matters, and he tends to feel and to give discomfort by his reluctance
to express in definite and assured terms the conclusions which he knows
he has reached only by vague and imperfectly communicable processes of
thought.

The effect of the action on the subject is all that the theorist has been
trained or conditioned to think about with respect to public policy. The
official and the legislator, on the other hand, should, and in any case invariably
do, think also of the effect of the action on the actor. The economist
conditioned to the purity of abstract thought is liable to be unreasonable
in his refusal to recognize that the official, in choosing his time for action
and his manner and degree of action, must give regard to their impact
on his relations with superiors, colleagues, Congress, and the public, and
to their effect on the prestige of his agency and the morale of his staff.
But the official must operate in this way if those with whom he has to deal
from day to day are to give him that cooperation and good will which are
essential not merely for his own personal success and comfort but for the
satisfactory execution of his functions.

The hbiher officials in Washington, whether they be political appointees
or career men, in my opinion, need make no apologies for their standards
even to college professors, elect of the elect though we be. As far as I have
observed, the higher officials in Washington as a group work as hard,


### ---Economics-1940-0-03.txt---
as disinterestedly, cooperate in common tasks as loyally, think as straight
within their own special fields of competence, as does the ordinary run
of college professor. They certainly do not live on the moral heights continuously,
but they are called upon more often than academic men to rise
to them, and, in my honest judgment, they respond to the call as often
and as fully as in all probability we ourselves should under like circumstances.


In one respect in particular, of special interest to economists, I have observed
them with ever-increasing admiration-namely, their patience and
generosity in their dealings with their economic advisers. In the course of
expounding the economic verities, the economists repeatedly expose their
divided counsels. They especially reveal that conflict within their ranks
between ancient dogmas and resurrected or newly-invented heresies with
which much of the remainder of my talk will deal. Those officials who
come into frequent contact with squads of economists, as they note the
repeated conflict of testimony, must feel at times like the English judge
who remarked that he had for years been trying motoring cases in which
two cars, each of them on the right side of the road and each of them
stationary, had been involved in a head-on collision-or even like that
magistrate in a native court in Ceylon who, disgusted by the flagrant
contraditions in the evidence of the successive witnesses, said to the officer
of the court: "Call the next liar." This failure of the economists to speak
as with one voice is a severe trial for the officials. I suspect, however,
that they would find us even more trying if, when unpalatable advice was
offered by one economist, they could not feel that there was a good chance
that with a little search another economist could be found happy to swear
that the advice which had been given was incredibly bad economics, or even
was "orthodox" or "sound" economics, which are now very forceful epithets
indeed in some high quarters.

To proceed with my catalogue of the handicaps of the economic theorist
as a policy-maker. The economists of my generation and earlier were
trained to concentrate on so-called long-run analysis in their pure theorizing.
When they ventured into the discussion of questions of public policy,
they accordingly tended to be preoccupied with the long view, with the
effects which a given action would have on the more distant future, and
to disregard or to weigh lightly its more immediate effects. A good illustration
of what I have in mind is the famous poor-law controversy in
England in the 1830's. The leading economists of the time all emphasized
the allegedly injurious effects on the productive capacity and the will to
work and to save of the poor which would result from generous, longsustained,
and assured poor-relief to the able-bodied. They stressed even
more the growth of population and the consequent impairment of the
basic earning power of labor which they believed would ultimately result


### ---Economics-1940-0-04.txt---
from any substantial liberation of the poor from dependence solely on
their own efforts for the means of subsistence of themselves and their
children. The extreme conservatives and the extreme radicals of the timewho,
as so often in history, were on the same side on a specific issue-and
also the humanitarians and clergy, stressed in opposition to the views
of the economists the moral and political rights of the needy to be given
food and shelter with a minimum of humiliation and of deliberate interference
with their accustomed patterns of family and social life. In this
instance, as in many others, it was possible plausibly to picture the clash
between the long view and the short as a clash between the humane and
the hard-hearted, although the economists of the time of course insisted
that the policy they advocated, while immediately severe, would ultimately
prove to be the kinder of the two to the poor.

Although it is obviously not without direct relevance to present-day
problems, I am not concerned here with the merits of this ancient controversy.
I have cited it only to help make clear the differing turn which
may be given to public policy accordingly as the long view or the short
is dominant, and to illustrate the characteristic approach of the orthodox
economist, from that day to this, to policy questions.
Now this habit of taking the long view is not only characteristic of the
orthodox economic theorist, but in the discussion of matters of economic
policy it is often the principal characteristic by which he can be distinguished
from other professional economists or even from the intelligent
layman.

In the day-to-day process of adapting public policy to meet felt needs,
on the other hand, the problems always manifest themselves in the form
of immediate pressures of one sort or another, and the legislator or
official tends to look for correspondingly immediate solutions. This is
"natural" behavior, in the sense both that it is what one should expect
to occur, and that it has its socially useful aspects.
Legislators and officials are typically busy and harried men. Except
under the special circumstances of major election campaigns, when the
pattern of party debate may by chance turn on the relative merits of the
long-run programs of the contending parties, and except for the occasional
opportunity of the legislator or the official to divest himself of the cares
of the moment and, assuming the role of the statesman, to give patient
examination to the needs of the future, there is constant preoccupation
with the problems which are immediately pressing, and little stimulus to
take thought as to whether the proffered solutions are likely to prove
lasting ones. There is especially little urge to go hunting for problems
which are not yet felt as such but which may prove troublesome in the
distant future.

It would be a mistake, however, to take for granted that the immediate


### ---Economics-1940-0-05.txt---
solution, the quickly-working one, is of necessity a defective one. The
immediate solution to a problem no doubt frequently serves also with
tolerable satisfaction as a permanent one, and in some cases may well be
identical with the optimum permanent solution. Many problems, moreover,
are themselves temporary in nature, and require therefore only
temporary solutions. The immediate solution may be the only one for
which public acceptance is obtainable, so that there is really no choice.
There are circumstances, moreover, under which even a benevolent dictator,
with no need to give heed to public clamor, would be wise to adopt a
partial and temporary, but quick-working, solution in preference to a
more complete and more lasting one which would yield its benefits only
after considerable delay. Mr. Keynes, speaking with at least a trace of the
accent of revelation, has told us that in the long run we'll all be dead.
What I presume he meant by this apparently crystal-clear dictum was that
if we took the long view, we, including our otherwise potential posterity,
would-or might-all be dead-or dead or unborn-before that view
could justify itself. This warning is scarcely much needed either by the
public official or by the ordinary legislator, but for the reasons I have
stated and not only because in respectable communities the dead and the
unborn cast no votes. But for the academic economist it is a sound warning,
and perhaps even a needed one. In times of severe social strain there
may be real menace of catastrophe if there is not resort, even at the cost of
bad after-effects, to a quick-working remedy which tides the economy over
the crisis. At such times, the patience of the orthodox theorist may be out
of place. But in the past, at least, such times have come only rarely.
Closely related to the habit of the theorist of preoccupying himself
with those effects of proposed legislation which are more distant in time
is his habit of searching for the repercussions of legislation which are soto-
speak more distant in space. Politicians are experts in tracing one kind
of repercussion, the political. But they are indisposed to take account of
economic repercussions, as the history of tariff controversy abundarntly
demonstrates. This indisposition, I think, they share with the general lay
public, to whom, in matters of economic analysis, one step at a time is
enough, if not too much. And since what the public doesn't know can't
hurt the legislator, he has at least no selfish motive for following the
theorist in his unsteady and circuitous wanderings from the proximate to
the secondary, to the tertiary effects, and is content to act in terms of the
seen, with worry about the unseen left to the economic theorist as a sort of
occupational psychosis.

I do not include in my list of the handicaps peculiar to the economic
theorist as a participant in the policy-formulating process two items which
would probably appear high on such a list if prepared by those with
whom the economist works-namely, first, his ignorance as a rule of the


### ---Economics-1940-0-06.txt---
legal framework and legal folklore to which legislative drafting and the
administration of the laws must conform; and second, his lack of experience
and insight with respect to what is and what is not administratively
feasible. These are omitted, however, not because the ordinary economist
does have command of these skills, and not because they are unimportant,
for such is decidedly not the case in either instance. But barriers to effectiveness
of this general type, instead of being peculiar to economic theorists,
are common to all kinds of specialized participants in a co6perative enterprise
such as policy-formulation which makes demands upon a wider
range of skills than single individuals can reasonably be expected to
possess. The lack of legal and administrative training on the part of the
economic theorist may be regrettable, but it is not fatal as long as he is
not permitted to decide policy questions all on his own.
In the ordinary course of events, policy is, of course, ultimately decided
not by the technical experts as such, whether they be economists or engineers
or political scientists or sociologists, but by the legislators and the
responsible executives with the aid of advice by the experts. That excellent
formula, "The expert should be on tap, not on top" would be almost
equally valid if it went, "The expert is on tap, not on top." This applies no
more and no less to the economist than to the other professions-except for
the lawyer, who is on tap and on top, and omnipresent, omniscient,
omnipotent, and omnivorous in addition. In the process of tapping the
experts for their specialized knowledge and skills, the technical equipment
of one profession provides the offset for the gaps in the capacities
of the others. And for those many things which in a world not clearly
designed for full comprehension by man are beyond human knowledge, the
lawyer always stands ready to provide precise formulae acceptable to the
Supreme Court as unambiguous expressions of legislative intent.
Even with these two items omitted, the list of handicaps of the academic
economic theorist as a participant in the formulation of public policy
which I have given is discouragingly long. Others, moreover, would probably
think they could easily make it even longer and even more discouraging
to the theorist. Let it be clear, however, that I am not identifying
the few "academic economic theorists" with economists in general, and
that I recognize that there are many other types of economists whose
serviceability in policy-formulation and in other activities of government has
been amply and unquestionably demonstrated.

The non-theoretical economist, in particular, or the economist who disclaims
any theoretical prejudices, is in fact much more adaptable to public
service than the economic theorist with some body of theory to which
he remains faithful, whatever its species. The non-theorist can adjust
himself quickly to the changing flow of events and issues. He is not bound
by any set mode of analysis. His mind but lightly encumbered by doctrines,


### ---Economics-1940-0-07.txt---
dogmas, preconceptions, or even in some cases thoughts, the fortunate man
can move freely in any direction, wherever the wind may list. If he feels
the need for guidance, tnere is always available today yesterday's position
of his official superiors and tomorrow the different position they took today.
In finding good-sounding reasons for what has already been decided upon,
he has a distinctive and useful function, both because the vitality of the
democratic process is dependent upon our continuing to believe that it
provides us with reasonably wise and beneficent government, and also because
statesmen's intuitions have often a genuine economic logic dimly in
their background. He shares also with other types of economists the useful
role of finding good uses for bad laws, and thus contributes to the
most important function of the art of public administration: the making
of silk purses out of legislative sows' ears.

The handicaps of the academic theorist of the older dispensation as
a useful member of a policy-formulating staff are probably even more
clearly visible to other members of the economic profession than to members
of other professions. There is in fact a definite cleavage between the habits
of thought of this species of theorist and those of other groups in the
profession, including many of those who help guide Leviathan in its daily
gyrations. The continued depression has obviously made a deep impression
on the latter, and made them impatient of or even violently hostile to the
traditional corpus of economic theory, which they look upon as an instrument
for the exercise of the tyranny of the dead mind over the living. They
seem to believe increasingly that its role has been, even in the long-past days
of its almost unchallenged dominance, "to light fools the way to dusty
death." The world it approvingly describes of atomistic competition, and
the ethical approval which, as they read it, it translates to the actual world
by its failure clearly to contrast the ideal with the real, make it appear
to them too far divorced from the present-day realities and values to warrant
faith in its usefulness as an aid to the guidance of social policy. Instead
of the economy of effective competition, of freedom of individual
initiative, of equality of economic opportunity, of steady and full employment,
pictured in the traditional theory, they see an economy dominated
by giant corporations in almost every important field of industry outside
agriculture, an economy marked by great concentration of wealth and
economic power, and great disparity of income and of opportunity for
betterment. They note the apparently unending flow of evidence from
investigating committees and courts of the flagrant misuse of concentrated
economic power. They observe with alarm the failure of our economy for
ten successive years to give millions of men able to work and anxious to
work the opportunity to earn their daily bread. And seeing the actual
world so, they refuse to accept as useful for their purposes a type of
economic theory which as they read it either ignores these evils or treats


### ---Economics-1940-0-08.txt---
them as temporary, self-correcting aberrations or excrescences of what is
basically a sound economic system. Having rejected the conventional picture
of the system, they tend increasingly to adopt another one, rapidly approaching
equal conventionalization, but following another pattern, in
which the evils are inherent in the system and cannot be excised without its
drastic reconstruction and its substantial operation by government.
Their account of the traditional economic theory is not wholly a caricature,
but it is overdrawn and distorted. It deliberately disregards the failure
of government to behave according to the rules laid down by the orthodox
theory as necessary if its conclusions are to have practical validity, and
it especially overlooks the long line of great men in the orthodox tradition,
by no means already at an end, who by no stretch of the imagination
can be charged with having exploited it to protect evils against reform.
But this is in the present connection significant only as it prejudices these
zealous reformers against utilizing for their own good purposes the aid
the old doctrines can still furnish. Their picture of the evils of the present
economic system may also be painted in too strident colors, but it is undoubtedly
close enough to the truth to make complacency indefensible.
Where in my opinion they are most gravely in error, however, is that in
rejecting lock-stock-and-barrel the traditional economic theory, they are
abandoning habits of mind and analytical tools which are still essential if
evils are not only correctly to be identified but are to be ascribed to their
proper causes, and if remedies are not to be advocated which may prove
worse than the diseases they are prescribed for.

As a by-product of the breach with the older body of doctrine, the
economic profession is tending to wipe out that line of cleavage which in
this country has been so marked almost since the foundation of the Economic
Association between the teachings of the professional economists,
on the one hand, and the practices of government and the beliefs of the
lay public, on the other hand. I, for one, would welcome this reconciliation
if it resulted from our final conversion of the lay public. I think,
however, that the reverse has happened to a substantial extent, and that
economic doctrine is now following public opinion and government practice
much more than it is influencing them. For obvious reasons which have
no counterpart in this country, this is now of course the routine situation
in totalitarian countries. Its occurrence in this country is not, I am certain,
due to any significant extent to a new subservience of the profession to
external opinion. Its explanation lies largely, I think, in the fact that under
the impact of depression conditions the economists have in large numbers
abandoned the traditional economic doctrines, with their emphasis on the
long view, and have turned instead to the short view which government
and the lay public have always tended to take. It is true that in adopting
the short view many of the younger economists have not merely taken


### ---Economics-1940-0-09.txt---
over the lay notions bodily. Some of them have, in fact, given them a
theoretical elaboration which for subtlety, refinement, and elegance need
make no apologies to the older economics, and which remains faithful
to older theorizing in at least one, respect, that the tradition of unintelligibility
to the layman is scrupulously observed. It is the quality of the judgment
displayed, and not the quality of the analytical skill, which I venture
to question. No matter how refined and how elaborate the analysis,
if it rests solely on the short view it will still be close to the layman's economics
and still be a structure built on shifting sands.

My aim this evening is not to praise the old-fashioned economic theorist,
but only to help protect him from premature burial. The strongest line of
defense I find available is the argument that he is the special custodian for
society of the long view in economic matters, and that even in troubled
periods that view is entitled not to undisputed dominance but to a full
hearing. Since its value with reference to any specific issue can be tested
only empirically and therefore only after a substantial period of time has
elapsed, I shall present my case for the long view forward by taking the
long view back into history with respect to several of the doctrines in
the orthodox tradition. Not to make it too easy for myself, I shall deal
only with doctrines that have been so conventionalized through time that
they seem to the short-viewers flagrant examples of the freezing of doctrine
into dogmas whose venerability is their only claim to virtue.
An underlying characteristic of the orthodox Anglo-American economics
during its entire period of dominance was its basically optimistic outlook
on the prospective trend of events. As a cursory inspection of the files of
presidential addresses before the American Economic Association and its
English prototype would confirm, the economists of the time believed that,
despite wars, mistakes in government policy, and cyclical disturbances,
private initiative, technological progress, and the improvement and wider
diffusion of education had resulted in and would continue to result in a
slowly rising secular trend of per capita income, enjoyed by steadily-growing
populations. Imbued with this moderately optimistic long view, the
economists listened neither to the occasional prophets of impending and
lasting woe nor to the more frequent peddlers of patented devices for
antedating the millennium. For the period up to 1914 at least, they proved
on the whole to have been right. In the flush days of the 1920's, however,
we were told: that what was then would continue to be, forever and ever;
that the problem of the cycle had been solved by the Federal Reserve Board;
and that we had entered upon a new era of perpetual boom. The great
bulk of the economic profession, taking the long view, refused to give
credence to this blissful picture. How right they proved we are unfortunately
only too well aware. The perpetual boom having come to its dramatic
end, it later subsequently became increasingly apparent that all the days


### ---Economics-1940-0-10.txt---
of the 1930's were to be black, or gray. Some economists, simulating too
closely, I think, the technocrats' over-emphasis of the purely technological
elements in economic process and under-emphasis of the compensating and
stimulating functions of the price system, and responding too sympathetically
to the prevailing depression, have announced a second new era, but
this time an era of perpetual gloom, the advent of the stagnant economy.
There is even developing among the preachers of the new pessimism impatience
with talk in terms of the concepts of business-cycle analysis, as
carrying the unnecessarily optimistic implication that what goes down
may some day come up. I have no doubt myself that these economists
have genuinely succeeded in finding historical trends in our economic
structure and process which operate to make the attainment of full employment
increasingly difficult. But that must always have been true, and
the weight to be attached to such findings should not be decided until
equally ardent search has been made for factors operating in the opposite
direction. Here, I take it, is an instance where appeal to the long view
may save us from accepting as an adequately historical approach what
fuller appeal to history would suggest was rather a hysterical approach.
It has long been standard dogma that budgets must be annually balanced,
and that public debts must not be allowed to grow indefinitely. Governments,
of course, have frequently violated the dogma, and not only have
such violations not invariably been followed by disaster, but it would be
a difficult task to disprove the proposition that in a substantial number of
instances they proved highly beneficial. But as I read the history of the
budget-balancing dogma, it developed as a convenient rule-of-thumb protection
against the defense of uncontrolled expenditure and continuous
deficits by the plea that the appropriate time for budget balancing was not
quite yet but just around the corner. I am even convinced that most of
the distinguished advocates of budget balancing during the nineteenth
century would have conceded, though no doubt grudgingly, that even a
continuous growth of public debt, given a moderate and asymptotic pattern
of growth, would not in fact necessarily lead to disaster. On this
question of the menace of a growing debt that virtuoso of the long view,
Adam Smith, maintained his usual balance. When, during the American
Revolutionary War, a young friend, Sir John Sinclair, lamented to him the
misfortunes, presumably financial, in which the war was involving Britain,
and exclaimed, "If we go on at this rate, the nation must be ruined!",
Adam Smith replied, "Be assured, my young friend, that there is a great
deal of ruin in a nation."

But when for the old dogma that budgets should be annually balanced
there is substituted a new dogma that budget balancing is merely a fetish,
that as long as there are unemployed resources, whatever the cause of


### ---Economics-1940-0-11.txt---
the unemployment, governments should point with pride to their lusty
and bouncing deficits, instead of apologizing for them or shamefacedly
concealing them as if they were born out of wedlock, the long view tells
me that while this may not be the road to ruin it at least blazes a trail to
it. It must not be forgotten that spending in itself is for the spenders the
supreme pleasure, is the politicians' delight, and that what temperance in
resort to it has prevailed in the past has been wholly due to the belief that
somebody, some day, would have to be taxed to pay the bills. Even if this
belief were properly to be regarded as completely a myth, it would still be
one of the large class of highly useful myths.

Two related theses of the liberal tradition in Anglo-American thought
have been: first, that under a system of free individual enterprise a higher
level of economic well-being was attainable than under any other form of
economic organization; and second, that a society organized on this
economic basis was the only one compatible with the maintenance of
political democracy. These, of course, are dogmas, not axioms, one economic
and the other political in nature. Now that political democracy is
under attack, frankly from the fascist right and as menacingly though not
as frankly from the communist left which, like the serpent, licks its victim
over before it swallows it, the political dogma has become increasingly
acceptable even to those who reject the economic dogma. My concern
here, however, is only with the economic dogma, whose acceptability has
been destroyed or seriously impaired even for many economists by ten years
of sustained and severe depression.

There are perhaps some economists who would deny that an individualistic
system is at all desirable economically. This view I will not discuss,
since even if I were to reject a substantially individualistic system on
economic grounds, I should still prefer it, on non-economic grounds, to
what seems to me to be its only practicable alternative, a comprehensivelyplanned
economy under which, as some one has said, "All our hairs would
be numbered, and all gray." There are many, however, who hold the view
that while a system of free individual enterprise would be ideal if attainable,
it is no longer possible in these modern days of great concentration of
ownership and control of productive facilities, where the economic units
are to a large extent huge corporations and trade unions rather than the
single individuals of traditional economic theory, and where such competition
as persists tends increasingly to be competition between giants
instead of the atomistic competition of orthodox theory, and therefore to
be cost-raising rather than price-reducing.

When, some four or five generations ago, freedom of private initiative
was first systematically advocated as the ideal basis for an economic system,
the menace of monopoly to the proper working of a system so organized


### ---Economics-1940-0-12.txt---
was clearly perceived. It was then widely believed, however, that, although
business-men admittedly found abhorrent the impact upon themselves of
other persons' competition and grasped every opportunity to escape it,
monopolistic power could not come into being on a large scale, or at least
could not long maintain itself, except with government aid and sanction.
In justice to those who were of this view, it should be noted that the
grant of a corporate charter was then universally regarded as the grant of a
special privilege potentially dangerous to society, and it was therefore then
assumed as a matter of course that such grants would be made only sparingly
and would be jealously circumscribed, in each specific instance, by
restrictions as to permitted size, nature and range of activities, and right
of participation in the civil liberties enjoyed by genuine individuals.
Whether now, after several generations of unrestrained grant of corporate
charters and of great development of mass-production requiring large
economic units for its operation, it is still possible, through proper regulation
and restriction by government of the activities of large corporations, to
restore an essentially competitive price system, is a question to which I
freely confess I do not see a clear answer, although I look forward eagerly
for much-needed enlightenment to those sessions of this meeting where this
question will be discussed by an exceptionally-qualified group who, I have
reason to know, have been giving it very serious and disinterested consideration.
The only point I wish to make now is that the old dogma,
that monopoly power is basically the product of governmentally protected
or sanctioned special privilege and will not survive on a large scale if such
special privilege is withdrawn or kept to its practically minimal limits,
still has sufficient plausibility to warrant further inquiry. It seems to me
a reasonable hypothesis, one worth examination, for instance, that if much
of the impressive array of governmental encouragements to monopoly
could be removed, or, where removal was impracticable, if government
regulation were directed to foster cyclical patterns of price-behavior following
the competitive pattern, the chief evil product of monopoly, the
price-inflexibility problem, would shrink to easily tolerable dimensions.
Consider for instance, some of the elements in the prevailing pattern of
government relationship to monopoly and to price-inflexibility. Promiscuous
issue of wide-open corporate charters by the states; until within the
last year or two slack and faint-hearted enforcement of the anti-trust laws,
already gutted by court sabotage; protection of monopolistic price-structures
by the federal tariff; positive encouragement of monopolistic pricepractices
by such legislation as the N.R.A. act, the Webb-Pomerene act,
the Guffey Coal act; so-called "fair-trade" laws which compel businessmen
to act as if they were monopolists even if they wish not to; concealed
protection of monopoly by doctored building and other ordinances; tacit
encouragement to monopoly through acceptance in government contracts,


### ---Economics-1940-0-13.txt---
systematically and without protest, of identical bids and of list prices higher
than even the monopolists can obtain in what remains of the open market;
approval, and even enforcement, for regulated industries such as railroads,
of rate policies which make rates behave even more perversely, as
far as cyclical flexibility is concerned, than the prices of unregulated monopolies;
encouragement to and protection of labor monopolies; deliberate
schooling of agriculture in the pleasures and profits of monopolistic behavior.


The record of government encouragement to monopoly, when looked at
in conjunction with government's spasmodic efforts to enforce competition
and its intermittent clamor against monopoly, reminds me, and justifiably
so, of an old cartoon I once saw, depicting a political demonstration in
the streets of London, in which the determined-looking marchers carried
two banners, one of which bore the slogan, "NO MONOPOLY!" and the
other the slogan, "NO COMPETITION!"

All that I suggest, therefore, with respect to the dogma that free competition
can substantially survive if government gives it due protection
and encouragement, is not that its validity under modern conditions is
obvious, but that we have not the right definitely to reject it before it has
been given an honest and thorough test.

As a final illustration of the possible survival of usefulness of old dogmas
which were the product of the long view, I cite the proposition that the
timidity of capital makes the maintenance of "business confidence" necessary
if investment is to be maintained at the level required for sustained
prosperity. According to this dogma, the capitalist will hoard his own
money, or will send it abroad-be there any safe place to send it-and
will refrain from borrowing other people's money for investment purposes,
if even a faint shadow is cast on the political security of his investment.
The spokesmen for capital have found this dogma very much to their
liking, and have been claiming for some six years that a political shadow
has been cast over the security of their investments, and that this has been
responsible for the low rate of new investment, and consequently for the
persistence of depression. To reinforce their claims, they have done their
trembling in public, with vocal accompaniments.

There is no specific invocation of old dogmas, I understand, which the
economists of the new enlightenment regard as more absurd, more insubstantial
and unsubstantiated, than the claim that the timidity of investment
capital under the impact of political fears has been a significant factor in
causing the low rate of new investment of the past six years or so. The
capitalist, they agree, is a timid beast, but they assert that it is only the risk
of loss he is really timid about. He invests, they say, when he sees a clear
chance of profit, and hoards when he doesn't, regardless of whether the


### ---Economics-1940-0-14.txt---
government of the day is stroking his fur or barking at him. They point
out that the annual volume of new investment was even smaller in 1931
and 1932 than in any year since 1933, although if in these earlier years
political shadows were being cast on the security of investment they could
not have been more than mere foreshadowings of prospective shadows.
They cite also the substantial recovery of the new investment level in 1936-
37, when capital was still insisting that it was scared. They have even
produced a statistical proof that "confidence" has nothing to do with the
volume of investment, which takes the form of a demonstration that the
rate of investment is so highly correlated with the rate of retail sales or
of consumers' spending that no other factor need be invoked to explain
its major fluctuations.

To my perhaps naive mind, the dogma still carries some shreds of
credibility, despite those weighty inductive refutations. As I understand
it, the dogma is not that the degree of confidence in the intentions of
government with respect to invested capital alone governs the rate of investment,
but merely that some minimum degree of such confidence is a
necessary condition of the continuance of investment at a high level. The
correspondence of the rate of investment with the rate of retail sales seems
at least as available to support the thesis that the rate of investment determines
the level of national income, to which thesis even the most timid
capitalist will happily subscribe, as to support the argument that the rate
of spending of income governs the rate of investment. But the only prachas
any designs on capital, it would be wiser to bite before and bark aftertical
lesson I care to draw from the possible validity of this dogma of the
timidity of capital in the face of political threats is that, if government
wards, if bark it must.

I hope-but do not expect-that I shall not be misunderstood as holding
that full and invariably appropriate guidance for government policy under
present-day conditions can be found in the old dogmas or in what could
until recently be called "accepted" economic doctrine. I know no economist
who would take this position, and if one were to be found I should agree
that he was trying to make a fool's paradise out of his private ivory tower.
My claim is much more moderate and, I hope, much more sensible. What
I contend is that for various reasons, but chiefly as a psychological reaction
to the impact of continued and acute depression, some economists
have been discarding too indiscriminately their inherited intellectual ballast,
with the result that they sway too easily with each passing wind. With
apologies to you for the form in which I state my claim, I contend merely
that there is life in the old dogmas yet. I concede that new light is needed
and all that I ask is that our minds be kept open to acceptance, strictly and
only on their merits, of both the old lights and the new.
Nor do I ask for a sympathetic hearing for the old dogmas in the belief


### ---Economics-1940-0-15.txt---
or desire that such a hearing would lead to a cessation or even slowingup
of the present endeavors to find remedies for prevailing evils through
positive government action. Obedience to some of the old dogmas would
in fact lead to an intensification of governmental action. As far as I am
concerned, I have been much more impressed by the undue inertia of
government in the face of acknowledged evils than by its rash venturesomeness
in action, although I think I have seen both qualities displayed.
It is not a middle way between action and inaction, therefore, which I
urge. It has been said that throughiout all the history of man Confucius
alone succeeded in making the middle way either emotionally exciting or
intellectually stimulating, and I have my doubts even about Confucius. As
many persons who appeal to the middle way use the term, it really becomes
a disguised plea that we should halt between the premises and their
conclusions. That is not what I am pleading for. Let evils be dealt with,
promptly and decisively. But in choosing the manner and direction of
action, let us pay heed to the old as well as the new wisdom, and let us
especially beware of old poisons in new bottles.
 ## Economics-1941-0


### ---Economics-1941-0-01.txt---
In periods of war and revolution scholarship is not immune to, the forces
that affect human events. There is a tradition--an honorable tradition-of
scientific aloofness, of exclusive concern with the affairs of the mind and
the spirit at such times, but it is a tradition difficult to keep alive in an era
of total war. As individual human beings, of course, scholars feel the
weight of conflict. Many are affected as disciples of arts that have important
uses in the prosecution of war. Most immediate is the impact of revolutionary
war on social scientists, for the very subject matter of their disciplines
may be altered under the stress of profound civil disturbance. Not
least is economics involved in such changes. The full violence of the present
disorders has perhaps not yet been experienced by our science, but it needs
no prophet to suggest that the effects will be far-reaching and enduring.
Some of these effects we have already felt. Abroad, in regions where
freedom of economic thought has long prevailed, we have seen economics
reduced to a subservient art. Our colleagues have been silenced. The great
economic journals of continental Europe are dead. Throughout the world
opportunity for objective study has been seriously impaired, at a time when
it is sorely needed. But these are not the only reasons for disquiet. If we
face the realities of economic life, and set against these realities our theories,
our analytical tools, our ability to devise and direct instruments of control,
we must confess to inadequacy. Our needs outrun our means of understanding.
In his presidential address five years ago Maurice Clark said that
the mood of our generation of economists is one of doubtful potency in
the face of a great crisis. That mood has not been relieved, certainly, by
any lessening of the crisis since he spoke.

This feeling stands in sharp contrast to that of our nineteenth-century
predecessors. Except for a few troubled spirits, these economists felt at
home in a mastered world. The institutional framework had been set. The
essential nature of economic processes, tending eternally toward equilibrium
in this enduring framework, had been established. The form and central
substance of organized economic knowledge seemed to have been defined.
I do not imply that complacency dominated the thinking of these men.


### ---Economics-1941-0-02.txt---
Their belief was a reflection of the Victorian confidence that certain ultimate
values in life had been grasped and cast into institutional molds that would
endure. Indeed, it was expected that with the diffusion of western culture
these institutions would spread, and that economic principles based on them
would apply with increasing validity to a world economic order.
These hopes have not been realized. The institutions of whose enduring
value men were so assured seventy-five years ago have been challenged, and
have lost ground. The course of development that seemed so clearly delineated
has been reversed. The world to which the principles of nineteenthcentury
economics seemed so appropriate has found its borders steadily
restricted.

Today emotion, prejudice and narrow nationalism speak in the name of
economics in centers we used to respect. An oppressinfg sense of inadequacy
troubles us in the face of domestic emergencies. When we face these facts
it is inevitable that we should be concerned as to where we stand and
where we are going, as to the objectives, procedures, and prospects of our
discipline. Tonight, exercising the freedom that goes with this occasion,
I venture to indulge in some reflections on the present state of economics,
to discuss some of the reasons for current difficulties, and to touch on certain
of the responsibilities confronting us today.

I have suggested that we cannot today feel at home in an orderly world.
The reasons for this are not to be found in the immediate crisis alone. A
shift of attention, in economics, from systems and laws to facts and events
antedates this crisis. In some degree our present disquiet is a result of this
shift. There are times in every field of thought when system-building predominates.
There have been periods in the social sciences when the working
out of general laws was the chief concern of students, when men were
content to sit on the heights of speculation with little regard to particulars,
when the processes of social life were of primary interest as manifestations
of moral principles or of a natural order of things. But intellectual climates
change. The aesthetic urge that leads men to seek unity in mental constructs
at the expense of conformity to reality ceases to dominate thought, and
curious minds turn again to the observation and understanding of phenomena.


The causes of these swings, which are discernible in the history of economics
as in the history of other disciplines, are in some degree obscure.
Just why the pallid introspection of scholasticism gave place, in time, to the
fresh, eager interest in life of the Elizabethans, I do not know. Great opportunities
and emergent needs growing out of urgent pressures doubtless
played a part.

Such opportunities and such needs, combined with a great advance in
the power and scope of observation, have helped to direct economists of
our generation to a more searching and more comprehensive scrutiny of


### ---Economics-1941-0-03.txt---
economic phenomena. Under this scrutiny there has been revealed, not
an economic universe of simple and relatively unchanging attributes, but a
world bristling with variation and pulsing with change. This revelation
makes, I think, for health in our discipline, and is promising for the
ultimate future. But it does not make for a sense of complete adequacy,
when we set our tools of thought against the tangled confusions of economic
reality.

Shifts over time are a phase of the complexity we face when we center
attention on phenomena. Such shifts are always occurring. Our present
troubles in seeking to understand and interpret economic life are intensified
by revolutionary alterations in economic institutions and processes.
After a long century of relative order, comparative security and slow secular
modification of the ways of social life, these ways are now being swiftly
altered. Social habits and political systems which to the preceding generation
seemed virtually immutable are, for millions, subject to over-night transformation.
The slow tempo of evolution, in terms of which our fathers
thought of social change, appears to have given way to short-order reconstruction
of the systems by which men live. Of course, this sense of rapid
change is in some degree illusory. Staggered by the dizzy pace of life in
the world of headlines and radios we lose sight of the more enduring
features of the real world. When time brings a truer perspective, the actual
modifications of institutions and ways of living will perhaps appear less
revolutionary. But with due allowance for illusion, we may expect the
events of recent months and years to affect us profoundly.
Economic change, striking national and world economies with uneven
incidence, produces a welter of discrepant forms. This is true even in our
own relatively sheltered state. Domestically we have a complex mixture of
elements in our economy, with units of private enterprise, partially regulated
enterprise, closely controlled enterprise and publicly administered
enterprise struggling toward mutual adjustment and harmonious interworking.
The competitive elements of contemporary economic life have not
been effectively integrated with the regulated and controlled elements.
There result diversity in administrative forms and friction in the relations
among economic elements. These make more difficult the task of understanding.


In the international sphere disturbances have been more pronounced.
Even before the most recent breakdown, international economic relations
were sharply at variance with the ideal of a free world economy. Today
there is no world order. The laws of trade in a free world market have
little meaning in an era of economic autarchy, with such trade as is not on
a barter basis hedged about by a host of restrictions. The body of economic
doctrine dealing with the international movements of goods and means of
payment when commerce is unfettered-one of the truly impressive creations


### ---Economics-1941-0-04.txt---
of economic thought-has slight relevance to these conditions. It is
true, of course, that a world economic order built on other bases than the
law of comparative costs is possible. The hand of totalitarian control can
dig new trade channels and bring orderliness of a kind into international
relations. But while we wait upon the restoration of the old order, or the
contrivance of a new one, we face a disorganized world economy and a
great impairment of productive power.

Alteration of the conditions of economic life may go further than
structural modification. Continuity that is manifest in the persistence of
patterns of change is as necessary to organized economic knowledge as is
orderliness of structure. Patterns of secular development and of cyclical
movements are examples of orderliness in change, even though they be
overlaid with a screen of variation. Here, as elsewhere, continuity is impressed
on economic activities by enduring institutions, by technological
necessities, by the persistence of consumption habits among large populations,
and by many other factors. But continuity in human affairs is always
impierfect. Time brings changes in institutions, in technologies, even in the
behavior of consumers. The profound and rapid shifts of recent years have
intensified such disruptions. They have broken the chain of secular evolution,
heightened variation in patterns of cyclical change, and altered many
of the established modes of economic life. This accentuation of discontinuities
is a chief cause of the uncertainties that trouble us today.
But it is not alone the external facts of change and discontinuity that
induce this feeling. These are but one side of the shield. The other side is
the conceptual, for understanding involves the fitting of observations into
an ordered body of thought. The full story is that these manifold disturbances
have made much harder our central task of harmonizing objective
facts and systems of economic thought. Perhaps the best example of this,
and one that lies close to the heart of our present problem, is found in the
concept of the free market, and in the existing cleavage, in this field,
between facts and traditional concepts.

The free market, as the battleground of competitive forces, has been,
of course, a central element in the economic organization of the western
world. In the realm of ideas, too, the sovereign market has been an
essential component of systematic economics. The forms into which economic
thought has been cast for one hundred and fifty years have been
shaped by it. Today this free market, and the automatic attainment of
economic harmony through the market, seem much farther from reality
than they did a generation ago. The system of ideas built on the concept
of the free market is correspondingly weakened, as an aid to understanding
and an instrument for the organization of knowledge.
It is a familiar fact, but one with clear relevance to present issues, that
antecedents of this body of ideas are found in Newtonian mechanics. That


### ---Economics-1941-0-05.txt---
system, with its balance of forces in a stable and unchanging universe, was
a major element in the intellectual environment of the men who created
formal economics. It provided the concept of law as a ruling force, the
notion of a fixed order in Nature, and a variety of analogies suggestive of
ways in which the data of economics might be organized.
A particular conjuncture served to give this approach prestige, historical
timeliness and no small degree of validity. Just when the mechanistic pattern
was becoming the model of scientific perfection, the move for a free
market was given impetus from other quarters and on other grounds. Adam
Smith's protests against the fettering restrictions of mercantilism were
rooted in the needs of rising English industrialism. But it was precisely to
the economy of a free market that mechanical conceptions were relevant. In
the sovereign market, characterized by competitive individualism, free
contract and complete mobility of factors, and subject to no important
changes over time, the physical concepts of force, equilibrium, action and
reaction had their analogues. Orderliness was generated through the "nicely
adjusted mechanism of nature," without design or conscious control, precisely
as it seemed to be in the cosmos. It was, then, at a time when the
practical requirements of British industrialism, and the ideas of economic
liberalism were leading to the removal of market restrictions, that the
architecture of a science appropriate to the free market was suggested by
Newtonian mechanics. Out of this conjuncture came a dominant tradition
in our discipline.

The body of economic thought defining the play of forces in a free market,
and illuminating the extraordinary order-creating qualities of such a
market, is one of the great constructs of the human mind. It enabled men to
perceive, beneath the apparent chaos and bewildering complexity of observable
economic activities, the working of a vast cooperative scheme by which
the diverse needs of millions of individuals were satisfied. The analogy that
lay behind this construct was never perfect, it is true. There was never complete
concordance between the thought systems of classical economics and
the real world-a fact of which the framers of these systems were fully
aware. For the completely free market was never achieved; the world of economic
events was always marked by a diversity of frictions and retardations.
The equilibrium, in Edgeworth's phrase, was that of the surface of the sea,
a sluggish sea with viscous wave. The laws of formal theory represented
conditions at the limit, not those open to actual observation. Change over
time, too, lay outside the realm of a mechanistically conceived economics
with its static models, but if it could be believed that the institutional development
had found its terminus, that the framework would, in its essentials,
change no more, this was not a serious limitation.
Of course, mechanistic concepts have not prevailed in unsullied form, or
to the exclusion of other ideas. A literary and humanistic tradition has


### ---Economics-1941-0-06.txt---
persisted. Ideas of organic growth and evolutionary change influenced the
thinking of Ricardo, Malthus and many later economists. Marshall stressed
continuity of development, explicitly recognized the role of time in economic
adjustments, and made much use of biological analogies. John R.
Commons, examining the legal foundations of capitalism, and J. M. Clark,
studying the instrumentalities of social control, depart widely from simple
mechanism. With the passing years a variety of elements has been incorporated
into what was once a simple and elegant body of doctrine. But
at the foundation of formal economic theory, today, there still stand concepts
of static equilibrium, of a universe of balanced forces, of a fixed and
essentially unchanging order.

The general acceptance of the concepts we have been discussing rested
in part on faith in the expected progressive removal of vestigial frictions. A
nineteenth-century observer could well believe that the nations of the
world were on the way to closer economic resemblance and greater international
unity. The free market was spreading. Coupled with an international
gold standard it promised to dominate economic activities throughout
the world. The actual movement, however, has been in the other direction.
For economics, perhaps the outstanding fact of the fifty years that
have elapsed since the publication of Marshall's Principles is that observed
discrepancies between objective reality and conceptual schemes based on the
assumption of market freedom have been intensified, not lessened. There
may be grounds for doubting this if we look at our own country alone.
There can be none if we take a world view. Less and less does the sovereign
market of economic theory accord with the actual market in which goods
and services are exchanged. Today, faith in the free market as the mechanism
through which economic activities may be regulated and economic
order achieved in a world of conflicting needs and aims has been sorely
shaken. Neither at home nor in our international relations do we rely upon
the uncontrolled market to allocate resources or to effect other necessary
economic adjustments.

It is a decisive fact for our generation, and one that is crucial for economic
thought, that we may not look to the arbitrament of the market for
the full adjustment of means to ends, and for the unplanned solution of
the economic problem. This is not to say that automatism has been completely
replaced, or that we have today either the knowledge or the administrative
power which would provide us with substitutes capable of
performing all its innumerable and intricate functions. Vast numbers of
adjustments are still effected through the operations of free or only partially
regulated forces. But over large areas of the western world the major adaptations
of economic means to conflicting possible ends, the major decisions
concerning uses to be made of limited resources, are not made through the
free inter-play of market forces. And even in our own economy, control and


### ---Economics-1941-0-07.txt---
regulation have in recent years trenched deeply upon the areas of free
action. There may be a return, but he would be a rash man who would set
a time for it.

In stressing the mechanistic background of certain of the concepts that
have been employed in the study of the market, I have not meant to imply
that sheer mechanism plays an important role in contemporary theory. In
its obvious form it does not. We have been slow, however, to shake off
elements that derive from the static character of these antecedents. The
notion of a fixed order of things is still deeply imbedded in formal economics.
But the outstanding fact of economic life is change, change in the
institutional framework and change in the working elements of our economic
system. To recognize this is one thing. To, take adequate account of
it in seeking to interpret economic events, to incorporate the contingent
and the uncertain into our concepts, is yet another. This is one of the tasks
that confront our generation of economists.

This brief summary has dealt with facts that are largely familiar, but
they are facts that cannot be ignored in any review of the problems before
economists today. It must be a matter of major concern to us that there
exists a cleavage between the observed facts of economic life and the
formal systems of thought wherewith we seek to interpret and unify these
observations. Descriptive, piecemeal accounts of institutions and activities
and their shifting forms we have, in number. Perhaps the distinctive contribution
of our time has been the development of specialized bodies of
knowledge and specialized instruments of economic intelligence. We know
far more about national income, the structure of credit, industrial piroductivity,
the formation of capital, the earnings of labor, than we did fifty
years ago. But the circle completes itself. Variety in detail cries again for
simplifying principles. Conceptual systems that would interrelate these
diverse facts and their changes over time, systems with the sweep, generality
and apparent unifying power that were the impressive features of classical
economics in the heyday of its acceptance we have not. Which is another way
of saying that understanding has not kept pace with observation. Intellectual
discomfort is a natural result.

I would not suggest that in a universe of variation and discontinuous
change we may hope to create theoretical systems that are at once allembracing
and completely consistent with the perceptual world. In limited
areas and for limited times agreement between concepts and apparent
reality may be close, but disturbing discrepancies will persist. Driven to
seek understanding of complex phenomena, we shall continue to construct
simplifying and unifying systems; driven to make these constructs accord
with shifting and diverse reality, and unable to do so, we shall continue
to damn our systems as formalistic figments. That better analytical tools
will be forged and that fuller understanding will emerge from this troubled


### ---Economics-1941-0-08.txt---
state is not to be doubted. But we can be equally sure that the gap between
objective and attainment will remain, to exasperate, torment and stimulate
us and our successors. Our reach will continue to exceed our grasp, and
economists will still have need of Heaven.

There is yet another factor in our current discomfort. Economics deals,
of course, with human needs. But in a very special sense the things that men
desire-amelioration of present troubles, social and economic reconstruction-
touch the everyday work of the economist as they do not touch the
laboratory of the physical scientist. Influences of this sort, relating to ends
and ultimate values, are always felt in our discipline, but they are made to
press more insistently upon us by the difficulties of the day, and by our
present fearful concern with political and social emergencies. Looking
abroad, we have seen the purposes and values of special groups imposed on
scholars, and the resources of science used to buttress party dogmas. At
home, the ideal of objective research has been questioned. With freedom of
thought forcibly denied to our co-workers abroad, with doubt expressed
in our own circles as to the possibility and the desirability of scientific
detachment, and with the urgencies of the day beating upon us, we may not
put these issues aside.

The ideal of an objective science of economics, built on steadily expanding
knowledge of human nature, of social institutions and of industrial
organization, and divorced from personal judgments of the desirable and
the undesirable, has made its way slowly. For economics was long tied to
ethical creeds and conditioned by moral judgments. The escape to objectivity
was difficult, more difficult than for the physical sciences. The
subject matter of economics is the behavior of human beings; its laws deal
with human wants, and the pains of effort. It is not easy to disentangle
these intimately human affairs from personal judgments and individual
scales of value.

It has seemed obvious to men of many generations that the ends of human
existence and the objectives of social action are simple and inevitable truths.
Whether the end so clear to men was to glorify a deity, to achieve the simple
and natural order of liberty, to maximize the good of the greatest number,
to aggrandize a nation, or to establish a dictatorship of the proletariat,
norms for judgment of the "rightness" or "wrongness" of conditions or
policies were ready to hand. The notion that one could thus simply and
finally judge ends and appraise means sharply limited the scope of social
thinking. Confidence in a fixed system of ultimate values restricted the
hypotheses open to study, and cramped the investigator in the exploration
of social forms.

I do not attempt to trace the growth of the ideal of an objective science
of economics, independent of ethical creeds and moral philosophy. There
are elements of it in eighteenth-century thought, entangled with Physiocratic


### ---Economics-1941-0-09.txt---
doctrine and ideas of natural law. The Wealth of Nations, though
written as a powerful and purposeful tract, contains an account of a
national economy as an ordered system of mass coLpperation. There was an
attempt here to find correspondence between the chaotic diversity of senseexperience
and a logically uniform system of thought-and this, it has
been said, is the essence of science. With ebbs and flows the ideal and
the practice of objective economic study gained ground in the nineteenth
century. The vitality of economic thought in England and the United
States in the last quarter of that century, after a depressing decline in the
sixties and seventies must be credited at least in part to the stimulus of
this ideal.

It was natural to assume that the twentieth century would see a continuation
of this movement and a confirmation of this ideal. The improvement
of quantitative methods, the elabo;ration of techniques of impersonal
analysis, seemed to promise greater objectivity, a more rapid building of a
factual basis for economics. In academic, business, and governmental centers
more men were grappling with economic problems. Research funds
undreamed of by the economists of the nineteenth century could be drawn
upon.

The contributions resulting from this expansion of personnel and of
resources have been substantial. The problems we face may be more acute
than those of an earlier day, our confidence in sweeping systems of thought
may be weaker, we may be more keenly aware of the lack of generality
and prediction value in our conclusions. But we do possess, I believe, sharper
analytical tools and knowledge of the details of economic life that is at once
more comprehensive and more accurate. The technical and factual foundations
of systematic economic knowledge are being extended and made
stronger every day. Despite these gains the ideal of objectivity in economics
is disputed today. Faced with the pressing problems of a world in
turmoil, many have lost confidence in the possibility of our building an
objective science, divorced from the predilections and emotions of individual
investigators.

It is to be expected that the dominant attitude in totalitarian states would
be in conflict with the ideal of a science of economics not bound up with
the ends of the state. Sombart, who typifies this attitude, rejects, for our
discipline, the reasoning processes of the natural sciences and the concept
of law prevailing in those sciences. He insists that the laws of economics
have a priori validity, and are derived directly and intuitively. To him
economic laws stand at the beginning, not at the end of research. The
laws and values thus intuitively derived have the attributes of necessity.
They shape and direct the material subject matter of economics.' This particular
formulation is new, but the design was outlined in the last century.


### ---Economics-1941-0-10.txt---
Not first among its architects, but a dominant figure, was Adolf Wagner.
Seventy years ago Wagner set a pattern for economic thought completely
subordinated to the ends of national power. (I note, in passing, Wagner's
term for the attitude of those who were not guided by sound national
egoism. It was no mean achievement in the coupling of words to define
this reprehensible state of mind as "fanatical objectivity.")
If criticism of objectivity in the social sciences were confined to Sombart,
Wagner, and other advocates of the supreme state, it would perhaps carry
little weight with us. But men who speak with authority for the social
sciences and for scientific method, and whose interests and motives are not
o,pen to question, have recently challenged social scientists on this fundamental
issue. Charles A. Beard cites "the state of uncertainty and perplexity
reigning in the very midst of the so-called objective school" as proof
that "the old assumptions of absolute neutrality no longer satisfy the human
spirit." He believes that the idea of a value-free, objective social science is
an illusion. Julian Huxley notes "the entanglement of social science with
problems of value" and concludes that "to understand and describe a
system involving values is impossible without some judgment of values,
and still more impossible without such value-judgments is the other
scientific function, that of control." And Robert Lynd in his provocative
book Knowledge for What? deprecates the fact that the young social
sciences, "hiding behind their precocious beards of 'dispassionate research'
and 'scientific objectivity' are reluctant to accept full partnership with
man in the adventure of living."

There is an issue here that we may not lightly dismiss. The two extreme
positions may be briefly suggested. At one limit stands an "objectivity"
that is oblivious to ends, purposes, relative values, that puts all observations
on the same dead level of importance, or unimportance, that conceives the
work of the scientist to be done when he has investigated something, anything,
by tidily arranging all data that might bear on it. It is bloodless, cold,
dispassionate, and utterly meaningless. At the other limit, every scholar uses
his own yardstick of relative values. These values lie beyond all testing
and questioning, but they furnish, for the individual to whom they have
been revealed, the ultimate touchstone. All judgments of means are based
on these values. Research is an individual adventure.
Of course, neither of these extreme alternatives is acceptable. One means,
for the economist, a withdrawal from life, acquiescence in whatever is,
complete indifference to the meaning of the forms he is studying, or of
alternative forms of economic organization. The other means the loss of a
hard-won heritage, renunciation of the hope of cumulative growth of
economic knowledge, surrender to rudderless whims and the unpredictable
diversities of individual taste. Our problem as economists is the difficult one
of serving our generation in meeting its urgent present needs and of preserving


### ---Economics-1941-0-11.txt---
all our rights to objective, detailed appraisal, with nothing, whether
end or means, exempt from critical judgment.

The key to this apparent dilemma is to be found, I think, in the manner
in which values are to be treated. The moralist, the reformer, the protagonist
of causes, usually derives his values from without the system of facts and
events to which the values are to be applied, and for which they provide
ends. For Adolf Wagner values were set by national honor and national
interest. For Sombart values and judgments about values derive from the
individual's Weltanschauung. They lie outside the realm of science; they
are not subject to testing, to critical judgment. Values thus derived have, I
think, no place in the work of the economist. In this direction lie emotionalism,
partisanship, conflict, and the loss of that impartiality toward
facts, in the realm of knowledge, that is the richest heritage of our scientific
tradition. If the revolt against detachment and objectivity means the subordination
of the quest for knowledge to values and objectives that are
beyond testing, it threatens the very essentials of our discipline.
I do not believe that a science can assume responsibility for choosing
among ends, and for setting up scales of preference in its discussion of the
objectives of social action, without introducing into systems of thought the
support of given ends. This is not to deprecate the maintenance of rights to
personal choice or the espousal of causes by individuals, be they poets, politicians,
pedagogues or political economists. The human spirit is at its finest
in the selfless support of great causes. But the heart of science, as a method
of observation, a means to understanding, and an attitude toward the
universe, is lost when science itself becomes a protagonist of ends. This
assertion has, I believe, a timeless validity. It is not conditioned by the
affairs of the moment. There is today, however, more reason than in normal
times for a jealous preservation by economists of the independence and
objectivity that are the heart of the scientific tradition. To forsake that
tradition is to invite political control. It is to make of economics a discipline
subservient to the dominant political powers of the day.
In thus repudiating protagonism and partisanship I am far from proposing
that we close our eyes to values and value judgments. We need not and
must not be blind accumulators of knowledge irrelevant to social needs and
aims. Values and ends concern us mightily. Our attitude toward them,
however, is not that of the preacher of ethics or the social reformer. They
are part of the subject matter of inquiry, open to criticism, appraisal, provisional
acceptance or rejection.2 For any value judgment, any setting up of
an objective of social action, is a hypothesis. Like all hypotheses it suggests
modes of organization,. ways of utilizing things, methods of handling
the means that are open to manipulation. We should be both blind and


### ---Economics-1941-0-12.txt---
remiss if we failed to explore leads to various forms of organization alternative
to the one that may exist at a given time, to use alternative models
as aids in the examination of existing institutions. It is the function of
ideas concerning ends and ultimate values to suggest the nature of such
alternative methods of utilizing resources and satisfying wants. These
alternatives are then subject to examination in which all the interrelations of
means to ends and of ends to means are explored. And this exploration is
a task in which complete detachment and full objectivity are essential elements.
It is not a task for the impassioned protagonist. Anguish and art,
says Irwin Edman, are not identical. Neither, I may add (and my jagged
meters perhaps accord with my subject), neither are emotional perturbation
and political economy identical.

In defending the necessity of objectivity in economic research, I have
spoken in abstract terms. Yet here, too, means and ends may not be dissociated.
Impartiality and independence have a further sanction in that
they contribute directly to the fruitfulness of research and the extension of
knowledge. The data of economic research today are in many repositoriesthe
files of industrial corporations, the books of banks and public utilities,
the records of organized labor, the documents of accountants, the archives of
government. Economics can be given life and substance if it can draw on all
these sources for the facts on which it must build. These sources are open
to us only when there is mutual confidence in the possibility of disinterested
study. We have before us today many examples of co65peration, in research,
of individuals of diverse economic interests and, indeed, of widely
differing opinions as to what is desirable in economic organization. Make
research a tool of special interests, make the driving motive the attainment
of my particular Utopia, or yours, reject objectivity and impartial workmanship
as the means to advance knowledge, and the possibility of such
co6peration is lost.

My talk tonight has been shop talk. I have discussed some of the elements
of uncertainty in our discipline today, some of the difficulties we face in
seeking a better understanding of the means by which men live. The mere
variation of experience creates some of these difficulties. The confusions
and needs of a troubled time have put phenomena, in all their diversity,
at the center of economic attention. Satisfaction with the unity and logical
coherence of systems of economic thought is to some extent impaired when
the bewildering variety of things and events is set against these conceptual
systems.

Difficulties growing out of a keener appreciation of the complexities of
economic reality have been. intensified by profound and accelerated change.
I mean, now, not changes on the intellectual level, such as those that revolutionized
biological thought eighty years ago, or those that recast the foundations
of the physical sciences in the early years of this century. These


### ---Economics-1941-0-13.txt---
changes germinated and spread in the realm of ideas. They altered the
intellectual climate, but the basic phenomena of biology and physics were
unaffected. The revolutions of our generation fall on another front. The
tides of change that have flowed during the last twenty-five years, and that
have reached flood proportions in the past decade, strike deeply at social
institutions. The ordinary affairs of life are affected for men everywhere,
as they have not been for centuries. Economics and the other social sciences
lie in the direct track of the cyclonic disturbances of our time. Not only are
conditions of inquiry and systems of ideas affected. The structure of social
life is being modified; the patterns of temporal change in social life, to
which we have in some degree adapted ourselves, have been altered. Profound
changes have occurred in the subject matter of research itself. It is
not surprising that understanding has lagged.

One aspect of these changes has special significance for us. The concept
of a free market occupies a central place in economic thought. Complete
freedom has never been achieved, it is true; but a system of thought based
on the assumption that such freedom exists had strong claims when it
could be believed that obstacles to freedom were being steadily reduced.
From a world view this is clearly not so today, nor are there reasons to
believe that it will be so in the piroximate future. With decline in the free
market and the persistence of other fundamental changes, mechanistically
based concepts lose much in relevance. We are struggling toward alternative
concepts adapted to our needs in seeking to understand the complex of free,
controlled and regulated elements in contemporary economies as they
change over time, but our constructs still fall short of our needs.
I have touched, finally, on the possibility of impartial and unbiased
research under the conditions of social disturbance and conflict that prevail
today. Economists may have erred at times in the naive belief that description
of an existing system is the whole of their scientific task. The counterswing
that leads to rejection of objectivity and deliberate advocacy of
particular ends is, I have suggested, equally dangerous. Neither promises
most effectively to promote the accumulation of a body of knowledge
relevant to the urgent needs of the day. I believe that we can deal objectively
with both means and ends, that we can bring into our inquiries value
judgments and opinions as to the ends of social action-even widely differing
judgments and opinions-without becoming partisans and protagonists.
Promise 'for our science lies in this direction.

Under the conditions prevailing in the world today American economists
face heavy responsibilities. The task of keeping a body of knowledge alive,
of maintaining the right of economists to deal obijectively with facts, means
and ends is primary among these, as a continuing duty. This task cannot
be performed by our colleagues on the continent of Europie. Here, where
inquiry can still be free, free of class, race or nationalistic bias, free of


### ---Economics-1941-0-14.txt---
ends imposed from without, the obligation to maintain conditions of free
research and to harvest the fruits of free research is a grave and sobering
one.

Immediately pressing is a responsibility to help meet the urgent needs
of our day and our country. For this we require systematized knowledge of
the operating characteristics of the economic system we now possess, with
its puzzling and varying combination of free and restricted elements. When
the resources, the mechanisms, the potentialities of both the human and
material elements of this system are known, with a detail anld accuracy far
exceeding that whidc we possess today, we shall have information about
means that will make us better able intelligently to appraise ends, and to
hold ends and means in just balance. The achievement of understanding
of our present economic system is our most pressing and most immediate
obligation.

In speaking of the appraisal of ends I point to a second requirement.
This is complete open-mindedness in the study of our existing economic
organization and of alternative economic arrangements. Out of this world
crisis will come further change. We cannot now define the course of this
change, or the design of the economic life that is to follow. If we may not,
as economists, support this or that proposal for reconstruction, we should
be ready to test any hypothesis, to appraise any proposal for modes of
organization and methods of operation alternative to those we now possess,
whether these proposals involve major or minor changes in economic life
as we know it. No hypothesis can be ruled out, per se. And no hypothesis
can be exempt from the most rigorous testing against our given economic
means.

The two great responsibilities with which each of us is charged todayto
our continuing discipline and to the urgencies of time and place-can
best be met by the economist who serves as economist, not as defender,
advocate, disciple, or special pleader. Such impartial service is the greatest
contribution he can make to the needs of an age in crisis. I believe that
he may best hope to make that contribution if he continues to live and
work in the great tradition of western science, a tradition that means honesty
of endeavor, integrity and dignity of spirit, and the ideal of objectivity in
research.

FREDERICK C. MILLS

Columbia University