I 62

celebration, the chief purpose of the university or eolle-
e is not the imparting of information or the gis7ing
of a special or technical traillillgortlledeveloplllent of
scholars, but the securing of that breacith of view and
widened sympathy which is the result of the personal
intercourse of thousands of young meJl through a period
of thl-ee or four years vlllcler college azad university influence,
how vastly will tl-lis illflllellee for good in ever
direction be strengthened and incre-asecl, wllel-l in acl
ditioll to the hllllclrecRs of lotllag l-nell in our colleges now
preparing for the professions we shall have otlle- lllln
dreds preparing for coulonercial life. And this will surely
be the case if the ulliversi tie.s recogIlize their duties
toward this great and growing class of our community.
If tl-le business classes are destined to have all ever-increasillg
influence in our society 110W necessary it is for
public urelfare that as ollany members of these clas.ses as
possible small come under the influence, for a longer or
shorter time, of those great forces which make llp ourmoclern
llnivelsity !

N0TH I.

THb =tVHARTON SCHOOW OF FINANCE AND ECON=OWIY.
The \Mhartoll School was foull(led in I88I. Its course ss7as at first
only two years, be^,inlling n7ith the junior year in college. Its curriculum
sn7as colnpo.sed largely of the ordinary college subjects tau<ght
by men already appointed to teach ila the university. The e:xperilIlellt
naturallT failed, and there was talk of handing back the endowment
to Mr. Wharton, on the ground that there seemed to be no special demand
for such instruction. It was decide(l, however, to make a new
departul-e. Albel t S. Bones was appointed Professor of Mercantile
Law and Practice, in FebNzary, I883, and entrusted ssrith the organization
of the department; RolDert E,his Thomson sras retained as Professor
of Political Economy; Edmund J. James ssras called as Professor
of PulDlic Finance and Aclnlinistl-atioll; and John Bach McMastelo
as Professor of American History, political, constitutional and industrial,
both beginning work in DecemlDer, I883. A fleW era was