standpoint of libertyw there CAll be no doubt whatever
about this principle. Yet it is easy for cc)lltl-act to abl-ogate
the right of cot,ltract. \Allle1lever a Inal1 colatracts
hilMSelf into t-1 COnditiOIl of virtual slavery, tlwis is the
case. I have already cited the xvell-k1lorlln cases brought
before J udge Bennett of South Carolina. Cases have
arisen in Germany, under *Nrlnat is called tile "coznpetitive
clause " of labor contracts. It seems that there it is
quite ctlstcxmary to insist upon a contract With an employee,
learni1ag a travle or occUpAtion, that 1lt Small not'
after he hAs aCqUil-ed his lirilOR\7ledoe Of the 5LlSineSS,
eIlter into competition with his employer. Sometiines
there is a limitation UpO11 the period or area vitllin
which 1lo competition must be attempted, 1laakitlg the
clause a fairly reasonable c)ne. Sometimes, however, a
lad utterly incompetent to contzeInplate the remote COt]-
sequences of lliD act, and not liaxtillC five dollars tc) his
name, will agree under a penalty of perhaps several
thousand dollars not to enter into cornpetition R7ith his
employer during his Xrllole life, or itl the e1lsil-e German
empire, and sometimes it is said, not allyR;here in the
svorld. VV]len contracts are carefully sc1-utinized rith
respect to their impairment, directly o1- indirectly, of the
ritllt to zanake future contracts, it xvill be foulad that
many regulations are 1zecessary in the itaterests of liberty.
Contracting-out as it is 110u7 technically callerl, OC1S
an interesting illust1 ation of the ahsolute necessity of
limitations upon contt-act in the interests of pub]ic policy.
It rN;in readily be conceded that prisrate contract Inust
not stand above public policy, and y et throug-h contracting-
out of oblibations public policy 1nay frequ ently, atld
will freqelently be subverted. Let us suppose it is determined
to be public lDolicy, as it has been determined in
Germany and in England, that accidents to employees,
unle.Ss brought abolIt t?y sZilful act of the eInpl(zyee, shall
be regarded as a part of tllz- expenses of manufacturing