as a natul-al plaee to find aid and eomfort. It is only
another formulation of the same proposition, a sort of
synthesis, so to speak, of these two elements, when we
say it is the ollteollle of a rising standard of edueation in
gel]eral in the community at large, and of all inereasing
lDelief in the value of a speeial, teellriieal, professional
edueation in all departments in N7hieh sueh training ean
be of use.

TIle general tetldelley thus deseribecl l-las shown
itself of late in all eivilizecl eoulltries alike; England,
Franee, Germany, Belgium, Austria, ete. The new
Teaelling Ulliversitr of :London has reeognized the
existence of this need in modern English soeiety and
provided for its satisfaetioll by establishing a separate
and cli.stinet faelllty.2

TIle U^niversity of I+eipsie has approved the experiD
ment by aeeordill, a valuable and strikil-]g reeot,nition
to this movement.3

Belgium has giell the Inoxrelllellt a legal status by
providing for sellools of Colllluercial Seiellees in two or
three of its universitie.s, allel by raising the Colnollereial
Institute of Antwerp to the rank of a University Faeulty.4
1 Cf. no. to in list of monographs, etc., l-elatilng to comlllel-cial
educalioll appended to this article.

2 The Univel-sitJ7 of London Act of I898 and the Statutes made for
the University of London by the Commissioners appointed under the
said act (prizIted Fehrtlartr I6, I900), provide for a special Faculty of
Economics and Political Science (including commerce and industry).
Tl-Lis faculty in its oz-igillal form consisted of tell members.
Cf. also Regulatiolis made for the Univea-sity of London by the
Commissioners under the University of London Act of I898. (Printed
MAl-Ch I st, I 900 ) .

3 Cf Erster Jahresbericht der Ha.lldelshochschule zu Leipzig.
Leipzig I899.

4 Cf. Ecole des Sciences Commerciales et Consttlaires. Universite
Catholique de Lvuvaill. Louvain I900. Also: Universite de Lieges
Bstraits des dispositiolls legislatives, etc. Liege I900. (page 57).