Figure 3. Relationship between the Elasticity of Earnings with Respect to Hours
and the Gender Earnings Gap
Notes: The controls are as follows: Age as a quartic, race, ln(hours), ln(weeks), education, ACS years, occupation  and occupation x female; 35+ hours, 40+ weeks; 25 to 64 year old college graduates. Only occupations with more  than 25 males and more than 25 females are graphed. The vertical axis is the coefficient on occupation x female  from Figure 2, part B. The computation of the elasticity of annual income with respect to weekly hours by occupa-  tion adds to the regression in Figure 2, part B the interaction of ln(hours) with occupation. The regressions include  all three-digit occupations but just the categorized group of about 95 occupations is shown.
Source: American Community Survey 2009 to 201 1 and Figure 2, part B.
The findings gleaned from each of the graphs are similar although the levels are
a bit different. In almost all cases the coefficient on female for each of the occupations
is negative. That should not come as a surprise since it is a reflection of
the lower earnings women receive relative to men in almost all occupations. If the
individual's past employment history was included, as it will be for specific occupations
presented later, the coefficients would be considerably smaller. Presented as in
Figure 2, the coefficients give the raw gender gap in pay adjusted for age, education
and time worked.
One way to think about the coefficient is that it is the penalty to being a woman
relative to a man of equal education and age, given hours and weeks of work for
each of the occupations. But why should the penalty differ so greatly by occupation,
even for occupations that are high paying?
Each of the occupations has been categorized into one of five sectors: Business,
Health, Science, Technology, and a miscellaneous group called "Other." Although
the categorization is generally clear (e.g., engineers in Technology; physicians in
Health), occupation descriptions and groupings of the occupations in 0*Net were
used for less obvious cases.19 The list of occupations by category is given in online
Appendix Table Al .
19The Department of Labor's Occupational Information Network (0*Net) is the successor to the Dictionary of  Occupational Titles (DOT), which was first published by the Department of Labor in 1938 and last updated in 1991.
