in the past, or that the present plan will also fail, although perhaps only slowly as
was the case with the most recent failure.43
Another very prestigious job for new lawyers is to become an associate at a large
law firm. This part of the market for lawyers also presently sees a lot of action in the summer following students’ first year of law school, since that is when those firms hire second-year summer associates, often with exploding offers (see Roth 2012). This is a very direct channel to full-time employment after graduation. The National Association of Law Placement (NALP) reports that almost 95 percent of the sec-ond-year summer associates of all the firms they surveyed in 2016 received offers of full-time employment for the following year (98.2 percent for firms employing more than 700 lawyers), with around 85 percent of offers accepted (NALP 2017a, Table 13, p.
29
). That is, nearly all summer associates receive an offer of a full-time
position, and the vast majority accept and go to work after graduation at the firm at which they summered. So the arrangement of a second-year summer associateship in the summer after the first year is very close to the same thing as being hired for a post-graduation job, two years in advance of graduation.
44
Unlike judges, who have no flexibility on clerk salaries (which are set by
Congress), private law firms can compete vigorously with one another, and could pay associates differently from other firms, and also pay different first-year asso-ciates of their own differently. However, neither of those things happen, and for a number of years virtually all first-year associates at large firms made the same salary, of $160,000 (and most firms give uniform bonuses to associates of the same
vintage).
45 Thus, it is not the salary that determines the matching between large
firms and their summer associates, i.e., it doesn’t determine which associates work for which firms. The matching between new lawyers and big law firms is almost entirely determined by the chaotic matching process that plays out very early in law school.
Other contemporary examples of unraveled markets include employment in
private equity, recruiting for college sports (and early admissions to college more generally), Swiss apprenticeships, and some medical fellowships in specialties that have not yet adopted a centralized clearinghouse.
46
The threat of unraveling sometimes prompts action, because marketplaces need
to be maintained, and, when necessary, defended. Markets that have long operated at
43 See also Federal Law Clerk Hiring Pilot, https://oscar.uscourts.gov/federal_law_clerk_hiring_pilot. Note that
one problem documented in Avery et al. (2001, 2007) and elsewhere is that an interview with a judge is scheduled
based, either implicitly or sometimes explicitly, on an understanding that the student being interviewed will accept an offer if one is made. If this feature of the market is not altered, requiring that offers remain formally open for 48 hours will not have the desired effect of allowing candidates to consider multiple offers.

44 Rescinded offers are sometimes another consequence of early hiring, since law firms may not always be able
to forecast their demand for new associates accurately a year or more in advance. See the NALP’s attempt to make this more orderly (NALP 2001).

45 NALP (2015) reports that from 2009 through 2014, “salaries of $160,000 accounted for about x% of reported
salaries,” over all firms (of different sizes) with x varying from 25 percent for the first year class of 2009 to 17 percent for the class of 2014. (The overall salary distribution is bimodal, varying by type of employment, with the other peak at about $50,000, and showing more variance.) Current salaries are a bit higher (NALP 2017b). Medical residents at a given hospital are also often paid the same: see Niederle and Roth (2003a).

46 See http://marketdesigner.blogspot.com/search/label/unraveling. Another example of unraveling, familiar on
some American college campuses, is the recruiting activity of American college fraternities and sororities, which is called rush, in an etymology that comes from unraveling, since recruiting that years ago focused on older students moved earlier (as some recruiting was rushed…) until, for many years now, it has focused on newly arrived stu-dents: see Mongell and Roth (1991).

