Figure 8. Regional Preferences for Target Carbon Price
Notes : For a regime with a global SCC of $25 and 5 percent penalty tariff, regions will have differing preferences  on the international target carbon price. The lines show the percent of regions (on the left scale) that would be ben-  efitted by a given target carbon price (shown on the horizontal scale). The point marked NC at the upper left is the  noncooperative carbon price. The line to the left shows the cumulative distribution of preferred carbon prices; the  line to the right shows the distribution of breakeven carbon prices. Because instabilities arise above $60, 1 have trun-  cated at that price for the breakeven.
K. Sensitivity Analysis
How sensitive are the results to alternative parameters? The sensitivity analyses are
presented in detail in the online Appendix, and the results are summarized here. I examine
the impact of three different sets of parameters. The first is alternative estimates of
the regional distribution of the global SCC. There are virtually no impacts of this sensitivity
test on the participation rate or on the actual global carbon price for any of the
regimes. The second sensitivity test is for the parameter of the abatement-cost function,
which is varied by a factor of 3. The results showed considerable sensitivity, especially
for global SCC of $50 and $100. The optimal tariff was varied over a range of a factor
of 6. This had virtually no impact on the outcomes. The main variable that affects the
outcome is the global social cost of carbon, as shown in the figures and tables.
Those familiar with the literature on climate-change economics will wonder what
happened to the discount rate, which is critical in virtually all areas. The answer is
that the discount rate will primarily affect the global and national SCCs, but has
little effect on the outcomes conditional on the SCCs. For example, a lower discount
rate will raise the estimated global SCC, perhaps from $12.5 to $25. This will
lead to a higher target carbon price, higher emissions reductions, and lower annual
