
# E2
 ## Economics-1891-0


### ---Economics-1891-0-01.txt---
Two years ago, addressing the Association at its
Philadelphia meeting, I said, having in view the
great increase of interest in economic discussion:
"cA bay, one-half whose spaces lie bare and baking
in the sun, does not more differ from that bay when
the sea comes rolling in, filling it full of boisterous
life and beating with angry roar upon the rocks
which close it round, than does the economic world
of a few years ago differ from that which we look
out upon to-day."

If this image then seemed to any one extravagant,
it surely will not now. It is far too tame to represent
the facts of the present time. Not only has
the rising tide of economic thought filled every bay
and creek and arm along.the shore; but the very
fountains of the great deep appear to have been
broken up; on every side the "cdry land" of a past
generation has been invaded by a rush of angry
waters. The bounds of tradition, the barriers of
authority have, for the time at least, been swept
away. Everything once deemed settled in economic
theory is audaciously challenged; the most venerable
and well approved of our institutions are rudely
assailed; ideas to which, but a few years ago, assent


### ---Economics-1891-0-02.txt---
was given so general as to be practically unanimous,
are now denounced and scoffed at upon public platforms
and in the drawing rooms of fashion. The
ownership of land, individual enterprise in business,
even the system of private property, 'are alike
threatened.

Doubtless those who were caught nearest the
shore by this tremendous inundation, and who now,
from roofs and tree-tops, view with dismay the still
rising floods, have in a measure themselves to thank
for their present uncomfortable position. They have
scoffed at those who pointed to palpable signs of the
times; they have set their professorial or editorial
chairs down at the water's edge and defied the
ocean's power; they have mistaken for nature's impassible
barriers what were merely the beaches and
terraces of a certain stage of civilization; and have
expounded local and temporary conditions as eternal
laws of human society.
But even those of us who, a longer or a shorter
time ago, thought we discerned the coming of a
storm and removed ourselves and our effects from
the lower ground of an uncompromising individualism
to positions somewhat more elevated and seemingly
secure, are scarcely less involved in the general
catastrophe. The floods are already all around us
and are fast climbing to our seats. As we look out
upon the waste of waters, we wonder, not altogether
without anxiety, when the wind will begin to blow
over the face of this high-running, furiously-heaving
sea, to bring peace and a calm, to restore ocean to
his place and make the dry land appear once more,
however much or however little its configuration
may be found to have been permanently altered by


### ---Economics-1891-0-03.txt---
the workings of this economic deluge. How, indeed,
shall that be? As it was in the good old days? or
shall we have to recognize the fact that great inland
seas have been created by the overflow; that deep
channels have been cut through the land, and that
vast outlying masses of the once solid. continent of
laissez faiire have become islands, around which
the waters will continually roar? For one I have
little doubt that in due time, when these angry floods
subside, the green land will emerge fairer and richer
for the inundation, but not greatly altered in aspect
or in shape.

To leave this image, which has perhaps already
been carried over far, one may say that the past two
years in America have witnessed such an access of
interest in economic matters as our country has
never before known; and that a spirit, not merely
of contempt for authority, but of dissatisfaction
with the existing order, and even of angry impatience
at the material conditions of the universe, has
been widely manifested, which has made it very
hard work, indeed, to be an economist, in these
days. 01i the one hand, old Utopias have been
re-discovered, re-explored, re-surveyed and re-opened
to settlement by an afflicted humanity; on the other,
brand new devices for doing away with. poverty,
sorrow, and even sin, in human life have been
brought out in rapid succession, by a host of philanthropic
inventors. In the growing passion for social
and industrial novelties, nothing has seemed unreasonable;
persons of the highest degree of intelligence
have, for the time, lost all measure of difficulty, all
sense of resistance, all memory of experience. The
practical working motives which have carried mankind


### ---Economics-1891-0-04.txt---
thus far on the way from savagery to civilization
are all at once to be replaced by angelic
impulses and celestial aims. The inveterate evils
which have afflicted our race through all the ages
are to be cured by proclamation. Armies are to be
disbanded upon the security of universal brotherhood;
the earth is to open and swallow up all its
jails, poorhouses and forts, in an instant, out of
sight.

To many the extraordinary access of pseudo-socialism
in America, which we know as Nationalism,
within the past two years, has appeared most threatening,
even appalling. They think they see society
at the very verge of dissolution, when schemes so
vague and wild receive the public adhesion of large
numbers of respectable and responsible citizens.
Social and industrial chaos seems to be impending,
when all the results of experience are thus contemned,
and all the fruits of past exertions are thrown away
as worthless or mischievous.
I may be unduly optimistic; but to me the outlook
is far less gloomy. I see in the ranks of these passionate
reformers few or no perverts from a sound
political economy; but only a host of as yet rather
disorderly and undisciplined converts. The great
majority of those who are now so ready to reform
mankind, all at once, by measures affecting industrial
organization and industrial activity, a few years ago
gave little thought to industrial matters, perhaps
deemed political economy a subject hardly worthy
of their attention. These benevolent clergymen,
these ecstatic ladies, these prophets and disciples of
an industrial millenium, never belonged to the economic
army; and if their zeal at first greatly outruns


### ---Economics-1891-0-05.txt---
discretion, we may, I think, confidently look upon
them as not unpromising recruits to that army, and
fairly hope that in time they will exchange their
ghost-dances outside the camp for the soberer but
more useful goose-step of the economic drill sergeant.
My moral is that it is an immense gain to have the
attention of the whole community so strongly drawn,
as it has been, to the supreme importance of industrial
conditions. Political economy, especially in the
United States, has suffered inexpressibly from public
indifference. The few who have professionally cultivated
it have had things all their ownl way simply
because no one cared enough about it to contest or
even to criticism the conclusions they might reach.
The economists have been as distinctly separated
from the mass of the people as have been the astronomers.
I will not say that the economists have rather
affected to be the priests of a mystery; but certainly
I can appeal to all who hear me, whether a great deal
has not been said as if an intelligent business man
should not presume to have an opinion as against the
men of the chair; and, if not an intelligent man of
business, much less a common laboring man.
The revolution now in progress is making every
man and every woman an economist. The vital importance
of industrial relations is fast coming to be
seen and felt, as never before. The whole people
are bending themselves to study these subjects. No
class of questions now take precedence, in the public
thought, of economic questions. The economists
who are thus being made are, it must be admitted,
just now pretty poor ones. We must expect a great
deal of crude thinking, a vast preponderance of feeling
over thinking, and an angry impatience with


### ---Economics-1891-0-06.txt---
conditions which will forever continue to assert themselves
in human life. But it is a great thing to have
the whole nation at school in political economy; and
we are no wise teachers, no natural leaders, if we can
lot succeed in getting a hearing for all we have to
say which may be worth listening to. We may have
to put off some of the airs which we have thought
rather becoming to us; we may have to get out of
our chairs, and teach as we walk among our fellow
men, like the philosophers of the old Academy; we
may have to translate our lectures into more popular
form and modern phrase. But if we have really anything
to say, we can get a hearing for it; and we
ought to rejoice, with all our hearts, that the people,
the whole people, are coming, for the first time, to
take a deep, earnest, passionate interest in the subjects
to which we have devoted our lives.
.The reasons why the vaguest and wildest schemes
for human regeneration, upon an economic basis, so
readily find a hearing and a wide popular acceptance,
are, besides the primary fact already noted, namely,
that most of the teachers and disciples are new to
this kind of thinking, three in number:
First. The economists themselves are largely responsible
for this state of things, on account of the
arbitrary and unreal character of their assumptions
and the haughty and contemptuous spirit in which
they have too often chosen to deliver their precepts.
Especially are our American economists "4 sinners
above the rest" in these respects. Long after
even the English economists, who have been lordly
enough, heaven knows! had importantly modified the
traditional premises of the science, to meet the facts
of human nature, and had, with a wider outlook,


### ---Economics-1891-0-07.txt---
admitted many extensive qualifications of the doetrine
of laissez fare, the professors of political
economy in the leading American colleges continued
to write about the economic man of Ricardo and
James Mill as if he was worth all the real men
who ever lived; and. the editors of the journals and
reviews which especially affected to exercise authority
in economics, greeted with contumely every
suggestion of an exception to the rule of individualism,
from whatever source proceeding, for whatever
reason proposed. Even the complete establishment
of such an exception in the policy of half a dozen
nations, and its triumphant vindication in practical
working, to the satisfaction of all publicists, all men
of affairs, and even of those who had once been selfishly
interested to oppose it, constituted no reason
why these high priests of economic orthodoxy should
accept it.

There is small occasion for wonder that, with such
a record for opposing wholesome measures of reform
on the grounds of laissez fare, alone, our economists,
as a body, should be able to do little in stemming
the tide of socialism which has set in so
strongly of late.

Secondly. The great positive reason for the readiness
with which vast and vague schemes, upon an
economic basis, for the regeneration of mankind,
wholesale, have been received and adopted by large
numbers of our countrymen, is found in a spirit of
optimism which is directly due to the remarkable
advances made.in the human condition during the
generation now upon the stage. These advances
have been in part the effect of invention and discovery,
working wonders for man; in part they have


### ---Economics-1891-0-08.txt---
been the proper effect of the social and industrial
ambitions and aspirations which have been enkindled
by the growth of popular education and the extension
of political franchises.
Since so much has been done, in so short a time,
for the amelioration of the human condition, why
cannot more, and still more, be done? Why cannot
anything be done? Why not everything? When
people are in such a mood, any scheme that has a
promising face meets a ready acceptance. The mind
of the reader or hearer runs forward to meet it.
Scepticism and incredulity vanish. The more vast
and vague it is, the better is a project of social and
industrial reform suited to become the subject of a
popular craze.

Another reason has occurred to me as in part
explaining the very remarkable spread of the ideas
known as Nationalist. This may or may not commend
itself to your minds. It is that the phenomenon
is largely the result of a reaction from the nervous
strain and the continuous excitement under
which the cultivated classes in a modern community,
and preeminently in America, where the pace is so
tremendous, are placed and kept by the multiplication
of social duties and offices of a more or less benevolent
character, on the one hand, and, on the other,
by the increase in personal wants and necessities,
highly artificial in their origin, yet not the less imperative
in their demands. The men and the women
of this generation who have passed the age of youthful
buoyancy, hopefulness and elasticity, are tired out
and worn down with the struggle. The next generation
will take these things more easily; will invent
economies of time and strength; they will even be


### ---Economics-1891-0-09.txt---
born with a certain adaptation to existing conditions.
Possibly, let us say probably, finding that they are
carrying lightly the burdens which are breaking our
backs, they will set themselves to still further multiply
occasions and social duties and material necessities,
to use up their own strength and time, in turn,
as completely as we have done. But the last is a
question of the future. To-day, having been born
into a world comparatively simple in its organization
and its requirements, we find ourselves in middle life
or old age harrassed, fatigued, and at times despondent,
under the pressure of cares, obligations, engagements
and labors innumerable, almost intolerable.
Who does not at times feel thus? I confess, for
myself, that there are moments when it seems that I
would gladly resign all that I am and have for the
poor privilege of standing, a barefoot pauper, without
a name by which I could be called or a friend in the
world, knocking at the door of an almshouse, where
I Might simply lie down and be let alone.
To persons in such a mood, the repose, the relief
from care and painstaking, the release from domestic
drudgery, the social and industrial irresponsibility
which Mr. Bellamy depicts must needs possess a great
attractiveness. In a sterner mood, when we have
recovered from our momentary depression, having
perhaps snatched a little rest and turned ourselves
again to take up our work in life, we scout the very
notion of a peace that is to be gained by surrender,
of a sybaritic existence, amid ease and comfort and
perpetual music, which would leave our powers "unexercised
and unbreathed, and would reduce our
descendants, in no distant generation, to the moral
state of the Polynesian. We know that it is of the


### ---Economics-1891-0-10.txt---
very essence of social progress that as fast as we are
released by arts, inventions and improved organization
from- cares and labors which have worn and
wearied us, we should create for, ourselves new wants
which shall take up all the time and strengths thus
set free; and that it is not rest man needs, but work.
Yet still again the moment of depression will come
to the stoutest and the most fortunate. Shall we, then,
wonder that many, less happy or less strong, should
succumb in the struggle and be ready to surrender
individuality, with its anxieties and burdens, but
with also its glory and its power, for an all-absorbing
Nationalism, which promises, however futilely and
foolishly, to make life forevermore easy and pleasant?
It is in a somewhat different tone that one would
speak of the apparent growth of the so-called Single
Tax party in the United States. Here is no economic
absurdity. Tphe normal workings of the principle of
self-interest in dealing with the land are observed
and respected by Mr. George, at least in his later
utterances. Nor is there anything in his central
proposition which can properly be called impracticable.
The questions which would arise in the legislature
or in the administrative bureau, regarding
details, adjustments, conflicts, exemptions, interpretations,
are not more serious than those which at the
beginning beset many a system that has in the
result vindicated its efficiency and utility. Again,
there is nothing inequitable in the suggested Single
Tax, so-called, so far as relates to future increments
of value. Conceding compensation to existing owners,
the proposition is one which an honest man can make
and an honest man can entertain.


### ---Economics-1891-0-11.txt---
In the strict sense, the title Mr. George and his party
have adopted, is a misnomer. The assumption by the
State, for its own uses, of the economic rent of land,
does really not constitute a tax at all. It is merely
the exercise of one of the lucrative prerogatives of the
State. Properly speaking, as I esteem it, (1) something
of the idea of contribution according to ability
to pay; (2) something of the notion of universality
of exaction; (3) something of an admission that the
State is taking for its uses what otherwise the individual
would have a perfect right to enjoy; (1) something
of an expectation that the burden will, in the
end, be spread, more or less imperfectly, over the
whole community, on whomsoever it in the first
instance falls, underlie every real tax.
But in the case of "the confiscation of rent by
taxation," to use Mr. George's expression, the right
of the State to make the exaction is not put at all
upon the ground of ability to contribute. Indeed, in
his controversy with Dr. Seligman, before the Social
Science Association at Saratoga, last summer, Mr.
George argued strongly against the notion of contribution
according to ability.
Again, in the Single Tax there is no pretence of
universality of exaction. The subject taken for imposition
is single, specific; and no citizen is assessed
except as he comes into relation to this. Again, in
the Single Tax there is entirely lacking anything
like an admission that the State is taking for its
necessary purposes that which otherwise the individual
would have a perfect right to enjoy. To the
contrary of this, it is asserted that the individual
has no right whatever to "the unearned increment"
of the soil of which he may be in possession; that,


### ---Economics-1891-0-12.txt---
altogether irrespective of the needs of the State, his
enjoyment of that sum of wealth would constitute
an injustice and a grievance; and that right will
only be done, when government, acting for the
whole community, whose exertion, and sacrifices
have created that sum of wealth, shall take it entire,
if not for public uses, then for redistribution.
Finally, the idea of diffusion, or repercussion, is
entirely wanting from the Single Tax. By the very
nature of the case, the occupier of the soil can recoup
himself at the expense of the general community for
no share whatsoever of that which the State thus
takes. Inasmuch as economic rent forms no part of
the price of agricultural produce or of manufactured
products; inasmuch as it is obtained by no deduction
from wages, by no sacrifice of normal interest,
but represents wholly and solely a surplus in the
value of the product over the cost of production
upon the more fortunate lands, this imposition cannot
be carried over, by the processes of exchange, to
rest upon the consumer, upon the laborer, or upon
the capitalist. It remains where it first falls, upon
the owner of the land.
For these reasons I must regard the title, Single
Tax, as misleading. Were all lands to be assessed
for the benefit of the Treasury, that would constitute
a tax proper, The element of universality would be
present. The State would assume the attitude of
taking for its purposes that which the individual
would otherwise have an. unquestionable right to
enjoy. That taking would become a true tax, which
would tend, and tend strongly, towards diffusion and
repercussion, since a tax on all lands would increase
the cost of all production, and would raise the price of


### ---Economics-1891-0-13.txt---
all produce; and thus, in the end, the members of the
community would contribute, more or less perfectly,
according to their respective abilities.
AUl this is to define the Single Tax proposition, and
to set forth its true relations; not to discuss its economic
and political expediency, for which time would
be wanting here. While the familiar arguments on
this subject, pro and con, have been widely rehearsed
of late, I am not aware that anything of consequence
has been added thereto. Ten persons probably now
know what the Single Tax would be, and have their
opinions concerning it, where one knew or cared anything
about it a few years ago. But the extension of
the field of discussion has not altered the attitude of
the disputants. The advocates of the measure still
assert, in the same terms as of old, that the unearned
increment of land belongs to the State, and that it
should be used to diminish, or wholly to do away with,
the resort to other forms of contribution. The oppoinents
of the measure still assert their conviction that
the community, as a whole, is richer, and not poorer,
by reason of the private ownership of land; and that
the attempt to bring all of economic rent into the
public treasury would generate industrial evils and
would induce political jobbery and fraud to an appalling
extent

Meanwhile, if I may venture an opinion regarding
a matter of which no one man can know much, I
should say that the economists have rather been inclining
to the view that somewhat more of economic
rent than is now taken by the State might be brought
into the treasury, without impairing the virtue there
is in the private ownership of land, and without
directly violating the principle of compensation to existing


### ---Economics-1891-0-14.txt---
owners; while the practical politicians, on the
other hand, the more they discuss the project, are
more and more impressed with the hopelessness of
bringing such a system into operation, on account of
the opposition of the farmer class and the owners of
small village and town building-lots to any increase
of direct taxes.

An economic phenomenon of the period since we
last met, and, indeed, of the past few months or even
weeks, has been the extraordinary "weakening" on
the part of a great many persons, merchants, bankers
and editors, in the eastern portion of the United
States, who have hitherto stood very stiffly up against
every measure that sought to increase the moneysupply.
How permanent this change of feeling or
of thinking will prove, it would be idle to predict.
Whether the change has been, in origin, chiefly disinterested,
having regard to the common interest, or
chiefly selfish, coming from fear of personal losses
in the general downfall of stocks and securities, I
would not -presume to express an opinion, if I entertained
one. How far it has been the result of
influences long and gradually operating in the past;
how far due to shock and surprise from the catastrophe
of October and November, can only be conjectured.
But from any point of view, the phenomenon
is a striking one. Men who passed through the
struggles over the redemption of the greenback,
denouncing monetary inflation as the greatest of
evils; and who subsequently passed through the contest
over the restoration of silver to coinage, without
yielding in the least to the suggestion of possible
mischief from a diminishing money supply, caused
by the demonetization of one of the two money-metals;


### ---Economics-1891-0-15.txt---
and who have, until very recently, held to the
orthodox view that the money supply will take care
of itself, so far as a deficiency is concerned, and that
the only thing to be dreaded is inflation, have suddenly
broken down in the strangest way, not only
losing their spirit of resistance to the demand for a
large and arbitrary increase of silver coinage, but
appearing, in not a few cases, to be actually desirous
that it shail take place. Many who, a few months
ago, denounced the increase from two millions to four
and a half millions of silver dollars, a month, as suicidal
folly, are now contemplating without apparent
alarm, if not with complacency, the increase of the
monthly coinage to seven millions, or even free
coinage..

Whatever may have been the main motive in producing
this change of position with reference to an
increase of the money supply, on the part of many of
those who formerly called themselves; with much
unction, the friends of "honest money," there is little
doubt in my mind that the absence of a sufficient
resisting or retarding force, at the present time, is
largely due to the highly illogical and inconsistent
views of the money-function and the money-thing,
put forward by our leading economists generally, in
the past.

At no other point has American thinking in economics
been so loose. Making an insufficient analysis
of the monev function, to start with, most of the
writers of the orthodox school have declared that
inconvertible notes, however fully and freely circulating,
were not and could not become money: a position
which Prof. Henry Sidgwick declares no English
economist of reputation has taken. Deprecating the


### ---Economics-1891-0-16.txt---
use of such paper as money, our own economists
have, instead of stigmatizing it as bad money, asserted
that it was not money at all. In so. doing,
they have gone against the common sense and the
actual sight of the people. Every man who is not
blinded by prejudice knows that greenbacks are
money, just as much as silver or gold; bad money, if
you please so to consider it, injurious, pernicious,
anything you like, but money all the same.
In thus going against the common sense of the
people, the professional economists have impaired
their influence, in other directions, over the public
mind. Nor has the error I have indicated been a
merely incidental, and, in its evident import, a
trivial one. These writers have insisted upon making
their definition of money a test of economic
orthodoxy. They have forced this view upon the
popular attention urgently and aggressively. They
have not only departed from the reasonable position
of their English colleagues, as stated, but, in their
zeal to put down the forms of money they disliked,
thev have abandoned their own. fundamental principle
of value, declaring that the cost price of the gold
in the coin measures the cost price of the goods for
which it is exchanged, as a yardstick measures
length and a bushel capacity, forgetting for the time
all about such things as supply and demand.
Worse than this, as a means of forfeiting public
confidence, those who have assumed to be preeminently
the exponents of sound monetary doctrine
have uniformly disparaged the importance of a full
supply of money. In the greenback contests from
1868 to 1876, while attributing to inflation the direst
evils that can afflict a State, they declined to give


### ---Economics-1891-0-17.txt---
any consideration to the possible mischief to be
wrought by contraction, even if they did not expressly
hold with Mr. Wells, that ",a three-cent piece,
if it could be divided into a sufficient number of
pieces, with each piece capable of being handled,
would undoubtedly suffice for doing all the business
of the country," or again, that ",were all the currency
in the country absolutely swept out of existence tomorrow,
^ - there would not probably be one
less acre of land cultivated, yard of cloth made, toll
of coal dug or pound of iruin smelted, in consequence."
In like manner, when the contest over silver came
on, the same economists refused to concede any importance
to the possible effects of demonetization as
diminishing the money supply, declaring that trade
and production would easily readjust themselves to
the new conditions.

I do not say these things because it is pleasant to
find fault with men, who, in the best of good faith
and good feeling, wrote or spoke what they believed
to be for the public weal; but because I am convinced
that these fundamental errors of the leading economists
of the orthodox school, upon the subject of the
money-function and tfie importance of the money
supply, constitute no small part of the reason whvy
in the present critical situation, the conservative force
which should be exerted in restraining the nation
from excess, seems almost wholly wanting. The professional
analysis of the money function has been
utterly discredited. Money does not measuree value"
as the yardstick measures length and the bushel
capacity. Prices-i. e.-the money values of goods,
are determined by the demand for and the supply
of money pieces, of whatsoever those pieces consist;


### ---Economics-1891-0-18.txt---
whatever be the source of that demand, whether an
instinctive appetency for a certain metal, or the
force of law conferring legal-tender power upon bits
of colored paper; whatever be the causes which control
that supply, whether mere convention or absolute
cost of production.

Again, the money supply is not a matter of no consequence.
Alike considerable excess and considerable
deficiency inevitably become the source of direful
ills and woes unnumbered. If of an irredeemable
and fluctuating paper currency, that alcohol of commerce,
it may be truly said: "lIt biteth like a serpent
and stingeth like an adder," with equal truth it may
be added that strangulation, suffocation are not
words too strong to express the agony of the industrial
body when embraced in the fast-tighteninig
folds of contracting money supply.
Unfortunately those who should now be o01 deck as
pilots to guide the ship of State through the narrow
sea that separates the whirling gulf of silver monometallism,
with a premium on gold and a debased
coinage, from the bare and jagged' rocks of gold
monometallism, with increasing monetary stringency
and falling prices, have discredited themselves with
captain and crew by denying the very existence of
Scylla, and declaring that upon that side there is a
broad and open sea. In this lack of natural leadership
we can only hope that prudence may rule the
hour; and that the instinctive conservatism of the
American people may enable. them to pass through
one of the most perilous crises in their financial
career without a wreck.
I have but one other topic to mention at this time.
Alike the unprecedented increase in the number of


### ---Economics-1891-0-19.txt---
foreigners arriving on our shores, and the not less
notable change in the character of the new comers,
seem to require that our people should seriously
debate the question whether their own social and
industrial well being and their duty to their posterity
do not demand the stringent restriction of
immigration by law.

I am not speaking now of measures for keeping
out a few thousands of "assisted immigrants,' or
for sending back some score of criminals and lunatics,
each year. The question I raise concerns, not
thousands, but millions. It is the question whether
there is to be any limit to the extent to which we
shall share our birthright, as a nation, with strangers.
The issue is a selfish one, clearly enough; but selfdefense
is a law of nature. The first duty of every
nation is to its own people and to their proper descendants.
It may not impair, or, beyond a certain
point imperil, those interests, for the benefit of others,
without bringing itself under scripture condemnation
as heathen and infidel.
But further, it may be said that the position of the
United States, viewed as a possible benefactor of the
race, is a highly peculiar one. So far as, after the
proper care and defense of our own people, we owe
any duty to other nations-and who shall say that we
do not?-that duty is best to be discharged by making
this experiment of free government and of educated
labor, here on this Western Continent, successful in
the very highest degree. Aside altogether from our
own interests, it may confidently be asserted that
nothing which we could do by offering homes, without
challenge, to some millions of the most wretched
of Europe, would add to the general sum of happiness


### ---Economics-1891-0-20.txt---
that which would be an adequate compensation
for injury done to the character and the future of
this free, peaceful commonwealth of educated labor.
The moment the access of foreigners begins, by reason
either of their numbers or of their condition, to
lower the standard of living here and to impair the
self-respect and social ambition of our people, that
moment we may say that thereafter we can do more
for Europeans in Europe than we could do for them
upon our own soil.

No one has ever put into words the half or the
tithe of the industrial blessings which the New World
has already conferred upon the Old, through the example
it has given of intelligence, mobility and
successful enterprise among the people, through the
standard of general comfort and decency which it
has maintained, and through the strong, steady
pressure its competition has exerted upon the employers
of underfed and overworked labor. I sincerely
believe that the influence of this land beyond the
seas has been the greatest single force which has
worked during the past fifty years for the elevation
of the masses over there. And never did Europe
need America -America at its best; successful,
prosperous America- so much as now. Never
before did it so clearly appear that the New World
had been called into existence to redress the disturbed
balance of the Old. I say, therefore, that,
whether we look at this question as patriots or as
philanthropists, our first duty is to see to it that
this political and industrial experiment does not fail;
our second duty is to make it as glorious and conspicuous
a success as possible.


### ---Economics-1891-0-21.txt---
Now, is the republic in any way threatened by
immigration as at present going forward? During
the ten years ending July 1, 1890, five millions and
a quarter of foreigners arrived upon our shores.
This is twice the number ever before arriving in one
decade. No reason is known why the arrivals of
the next ten years may not equal those of 1880-90;
may not, indeed, exceed them as greatly as these
exceeded the arrivals of 11870-80.
The continent of Europe, away back to the plains
of Hungary, Poland, and Russia, is now so completely
crossed by railways, the organization of the emigration
service is everywhere so perfect, the capabilities
of the ocean fleets are so enormous, that, alike the
time, the money and the amount of- mental energy
and enterprise required have been reduced to a point
which puts it within the power of tens of millions of
peasants, in the most miserable conditions of life, to
remove themselves to the New Worldi Even in the
depths of the Austrian Tyrol, and in remote villages
of Bohemia, are found the agents of railway companies
and steamship companies, who put emigration
into the heads of the peasantry; who assist the intending
emigrants to dispose of their little effects, buy
their tickets for them, put them and their baggage
into the cars and lock them in, consigned to the agent
of the proper steamship company at Bremen, Hamburg,
or Antwerp. Upon arrival at the port, the
emigrants are let out of the cars by steamship
officials, taken to warehouses where they lay themselves
and their bundles on the floor until the ship
is ready to sail. In New York, again, they are met
by agents, put into cars and dispatched to their new
homes.


### ---Economics-1891-0-22.txt---
So perfect has this organization become, so completely
has the enterprise of the transportation companies
tapped all the great reservoirs of population
in Europe, that it is difficult to feel any assurance
that the movement will not go on, at its present rate,
or even more rapidly, until the balance of advantages,
now existing in favor of the United States,
shall entirely disappear. The channel is so broad and
so clear that the stream will flow as long as any difference
of level remains. This is what is meant when
one asks whether there is any limit to the extent to
which we are willing to share with others our birthright
as a people. But there is more, much more,
than the question of numbers to be considered in
treating this matter of immigration. As has been
intimated, a very serious change for the worse has
taken place in the character of the people arriving
on our shores. Formerly there was a certain presumption
that the immigrant was a person of rather
more enterprise and intellectual initiative than his
fellows who remained at home. He was a man who
could accumulate no trifling means for the expenses
of removal; he was a man who thought for himself
and had intelligence enough to know at once that he
was not well off where he was, and that he could better
himself by going elsewhere. He was also a man
who had the moral courage and decision of character
to plan, resolve and execute.
To-day the presumption is reversed. It is among
the least prosperous and thrifty that the emigration
agent finds his best recruiting-ground; and when
once the luckless, perhaps shiftless, peasant makes
up his mind, or has it made up for him, that he will
go, all need of care and pains and effort on his part


### ---Economics-1891-0-23.txt---
is, as I have shown, removed by the attentions of
those who are paid to take charge of him.
Moreover, the immigrating impulse has, within
the past few years, extended itself to races of which
we had previously known but little. We are now
draining off great stagnant pools of population
which no current of intellectual or moral activity has
stirred for ages. Thousands and hundreds of thousands
of those who represent the very lowest stage
of degradation to which human beings can be reduced
by hopelessness, hunger, squalor and superstition, are
found among the new citizens whom the last decade
has brought into the republic; and these are but the
forerunners of hundreds of thousands and millions
more, unless this stream shall be checked.
The limits of this address will not permit a discussiont
of the probable effects of such anl influx upon
our social, industrial, and political life, in the United
States; upon the standard of living, the rate of
wages, and peace and order of the country. I
believe that the races now becoming so familiar to
us, have not, and will not for generations develop
that capability of responding to the opportunities and
incitements of their new life here which the Irish
and Germans of the older immigration displayed
in such a truly wonderful degree.
If this be indeed so, the prospect before the nation
is a gloomy one. The subject deserves, demands,
instant and full consideration. The Economic Association
can do no better service to the country than
by taking it up for earnest, candid, searching investigation,
and by bringing the question sharply and
forcibly, in all its bearings, before the American people.
If after full discussion, it shall appear that the


### ---Economics-1891-0-24.txt---
nation is in peril from this cause, time will have
been gained for discovering and applying a remedy
before it shall be too late. If. on the other hand, we
shall be convinced that the republic can, in spite of
all, safely continue to keep its ports open to all
comers, without challenge and without discrimination,
patiently enduring some present evil rather
than surrender its proud name as the asylum for the
oppressed of every race and ever clime, our action
will then have a double virtue, inasmuch as it will be,
not by accident, or inadvertence, or sheer incapacity
for studying the future, but intelligently, solemnly,
and of set purpose, that we take up the burden of
the woes and wrongs of our fellow-men which the
waves and tides of Ocean thus bring to our feet.
 ## Economics-1893-0


### ---Economics-1893-0-01.txt---
MUCH has of late been said and written which seems to
render desirable a restatement of the causes and conditions
which determine the value of money,- the prices of
goods. The remarks referred to are such as intimate or
appear to imply that the extreme extension of credit, to
embrace the banking system, the check system, and finally
the clearing-house system, in some way vitiates the accepted
proposition that the value of money is determined
by the demand for and the supply of money, and makes
general prices to depend on something else. The allusions
to the small proportion of goods supposed to be paid
for in actual money, to the cancellation of indebtedness
within the bank, and to the vast transactions of the clearing
house, as if these conditions rendered the supply of
money a matter of indifference or at least of very slight
consequence,- these allusions on the part of intelligent
business men, and even of professional economists, are so
frequent as to make it seem worth while to go over again
the familiar ground of the value of money, to inquire
whether anything needs to be added to or taken from the
proposition which we once all practically agreed to accept.
There is nothing unreasonable in the idea that, in passing
from a primitive community, industrially speaking, to
one in which trade and production are highly organized,
and in which credit and banking perform an important
part, propositions regarding money which held good in the
former condition should require to be importantly modified
or wholly abandoned. In my work of 1878,t when


### ---Economics-1893-0-02.txt---
commenting on the remark of Professor Bonamy Price,
that the vast operations of modern commerce only reproduce
the simplest acts of primitive barter, I ventured to
use the following image :
The savage builds his canoe of materials every part of which
would float of itself. The civilized man builds his broadside shipof-
war of material which of itself would drop like a plummet to
the bottom. We may find, in our farther investigation, that there is
something more in the philosophy of money than comes out in the
primitive trade between the tailor, the butcher, and the baker.
But, in fact, does anything in the transition from a primitive
to a highly organized trade impair the validity of
the proposition that the value of money (whatever that
money may, in the place and at the time, consist of) depends,
like the value of anything else, on the relations of
demand and supply; that prices are determined in the
amount of goods offered for money, and the amount of
money offered for goods ? This is the question I presume
to raise to-day.

It is enough to make the most faithful soul flinch and
shrink, to be asked to go back to the contemplation of a
primitive community and to consider the origin of money;
yet in this case it seems to be necessary, and I will try not
to be tedious. Let us suppose that in such a community,
the members of which pursue various occupations and produce
different kinds of commodities, the difficulties of direct
exchange are so great as to put a heavy penalty upon
barter, or, to express it otherwise, to place a high premium
upon the use of money; and that, by consequence, all
commodities are exchanged through the intervention of
moiley. It was with reference to such a supposed situation
that the proposition which has been more than once
repeated in this paper was framed. In such a case, we
should all agree that the value of money depended on
the demand for and supply of money. In speaking of the
demand for money, we should of course understand that


### ---Economics-1893-0-03.txt---
the effective occasions for its use in exchange were meant;
and, consequently, we should have reference not merely
to the amount of goods produced, but also to the frequency
with which those goods were to be exchanged in
their passage from producer to consumer. Again, in
speaking of the supply of money, it would be understood,
almost without the necessity of explanation, that reference
was had, not alone to the number of money-pieces,
but also, and conjointly with this, to the rapidity of their
circulation. "The nimble sixpence does the work of the
slow shilling."

Such is the situation in which no doubt arises regarding
the causes and conditions which determine the value of
money. Since the members of the community must have
money in order to exchange their goods, and since, by the
supposition, they must exchange their goods in order to
make it worth while to produce them, they, each and all,
must needs buy money. In order to buy it, they must
pay its price, give what it is worth. What it shall be
worth will depend, demand being fixed, upon the supply.
The cost of production of money will influence its value
only as it affects that supply. Conceivably, the money
thus brought into use might be an article which held no
appreciable cost of production, as, for example, an article
found on the surface, but naturally limited in quantity; or
it might be an article owing its use to authority or to
convention.

Now let us take the first step from the condition assumed,
in recognizing the fact that, in an actual community,
all of the goods produced will not be subject to
exchange, and therefore will not contribute to the demand
for money. The fisherman will consume no small part of
his catch in the support of his family; perhaps one-half of
the crops of the farmer will be eaten within his own house
and barn; the shoemaker, the tailor, and the hatter will
each wear and wear out some part, at least, of his own


### ---Economics-1893-0-04.txt---
product. Does this modification of our assumed condition
require any qualification of our proposition? Probably
we shall all agree that it does not, that the product thus
consumed at home is entirely out of all relation to the
value of money, and that it is only the surplus going into
exchange which has anything to do with determining that
value.

Let us now take the second step from the condition
originally assumed, and recognize the fact that no inconsiderable
part of the surplus product is directly exchanged
without the intervention of money. In the face of the
highly humorous descriptions that have been given of the
difficulties attending such transactions, we know that in
every community, even the most advanced industrially,
barter does take place, and that on no small scale. Let us
suppose the amount of direct exchange within the community
in contemplation to be large. Have the goods
thus exchanged any relation to the value of money? In
one way they have; but it is in the way of effect, and not
of cause. The prices of the several kinds of goods produced
in the community - that is, their value in terms of
money -having come to be known through the exchanges
which have taken place with the use of money, the barterers
will be influenced thereby in fixing the ratios of
direct exchange. But this is an incidental effect of the
value of money, not in any sense or any degree a cause.
Were the bartered goods to be multiplied fourfold (but
not at the expense of the goods exchanged for money),
this would have no effect upon prices, since it would alter
neither the demand for nor the supply of money.
It is true that the line drawn in any community between
bartered goods and those sold for money is not a permanent
one. Possibly there has been some failure on the
part of many meritorious economists to recognize the
degree in which barter may be resorted to or may be
abandoned, according as the money in use becomes more


### ---Economics-1893-0-05.txt---
or less convenient and attractive in form, more or less
trustworthy as to substance and weight. In my work of
1878 1 offered what seems to me a very important qualification
of Ricardo's proposition regarding the value of
corrupted coin. That qualification had reference to the
large possibilities of extending barter whenever popular
confidence in the coin becomes impaired. The commercial
history of the United States during the Revolutionary
War, of France during the time of the assignats, and I
doubt not of other countries under a reqime of inconvertible
paper money largely depreciated, illustrates the
importance of noting this condition. By the corruption
of the coin, or merely by its becoming inconvenient and
unattractive, much more by the fluctuations of an inflated
paper circulation, the penalty upon direct exchange may
be so diminished as largely to widen the field of barter.
And in the same way everything that adds to the conivenience,
attractiveness, and trustworthiness of the money
in use, may cause that field to be encroached upon. All
this, however, has nothing to do with the validity of our
proposition. It is still the goods which are exchanged for
money, be these more or fewer, and not the goods which
are bartered, be those fewer or more, which contribute to
that demand for money which determines price.
Our third step is involved in more of difficulty and of
embarrassment. We are now to suppose that, of the goods
which are, in the usual acceptation of the term, sold for
money, a portion, let us say a considerable portion, are not
paid for at the time. Credit is given either for a definite
or an indefinite term. What is the effect of this upon the
value of money? Do these goods contribute to the demand
for money which determines price? The sales are
made in terms of money; money is promised; money is,
we will for the present say, sooner or later, to be paid.
Let us here introduce a distinction. Let it first be
assumed that the credit is to remain individual, if I may


### ---Economics-1893-0-06.txt---
use that expression; that the obligation is not to be transferred,
but that the debtor and the creditor are to remain
the same persons until the close of the transaction. In
this case, I should say, with deference, that goods so sold
contribute to the demand for money just as truly as goods
sold for cash; but I should add, not just as much. The
factor by which the amount of such goods is multiplied, to
give their effect in determining the demand for money, is
lower. In the case, at least, of goods sold on definite
terms of credit, there is a considerable, often a very large,
economy in the use of money, as compared with the conditions
of production and trade where "trust " is not given.
It is not necessary to keep such large amounts of money
in the shops or to carry them around on the person.
But now let it be supposed that credits are no longer
individual, in the sense in which we have used that term,
but that transference by endorsement has become general,
and that banks have arisen which receive deposits of commercial
paper representing a very large part of the wholesale
transactions of the community. What shall be the
effect of this on the value of money? According to my
way of thinking, so far as this transference of obligations,
especially in the case of the bank, which thereby becomes
creditor to many debtors and debtor to many creditors,
results in the cancellation of indebtedness, as to an enormous
extent it does, these transactions are, so far as concerns
the use and by consequence the value of money, the
same essentially as if they had been acts of barter. Exchanges
of this category do not involve the employment of
money; and they are therefore to be counted out when
we are considering the causes and conditions which determine
the value of money. They constitute no part of the
demand for money. Two transactions upon credit which
ill time and amount balance each other, and which, as a
matter of fact, cancel each other when brought together in
the bank, are, for our present purpose, equivalent to one


### ---Economics-1893-0-07.txt---
transaction of the same amount in direct exchange or
barter. The fact that each obligation has been expressed
in terms of money, the fact that, in the buying and the
selling which preceded the giving of the note of hand or
bill of exchange, reference was had by both parties to
prices determined by actual exchanges of goods for money,
-these facts do not, it seems to me, at all impair the validity
of the view that, so far as the use and the value of
money are concerned, such transactions are, in essence,
cases of barter.

But it may be said such transactions do, in fact, involve
the use of money. The bankers' liabilities, which are
made up of deposits of commercial paper coming due, and
which constitute the fund upon which those who are
debtors to others, but are creditors to the bank, may draw
checks for the payment of their own obligations,- these
banker's liabilities, or bank deposits, are, many persons assert,
themselves money. I am well aware that this view
has been held by those of whom it is needful to speak
with very great respect. Such was the opinion of Lord
Overstone; and Professor Sidgwick has more recently
presented the same view. But I must say that it seems
more compatible with the facts of commercial life, as well
as far more conducive to a consistent and intelligent
philosophy of money, to treat this matter of the cancellation
of indebtedness in the way which has been suggested
above. Bank-notes are money. They are distinct
and tangible things, which pass out from the bank and
have their own separate life and course; which become
the property of him in whose hands they at the time are, as
truly as do coins of gold or silver. Like such coins, they
pass from hand to hand throughout the community, without
reference to the character or the credit of the person
offering them. Like such coins, they are accepted in final
discharge of debts and full payment for commodities,
without necessary recourse to the issuing bank, except as


### ---Economics-1893-0-08.txt---
they may individually become too much worn for further
circulation, after performing, it may be a hundred, it may
be a thousand, exchanges. Bank deposits, or bankers' liabilities,
are not money. Inscribed on the books of the
bank itself, divided into no definite parts, constituting no
tangible thing, having no outside course to run, with no
separate, identifiable existence, they are not money: they
are simply an instrumentality for saving the use of money.
As such, it would be impossible to overrate their importance;
but that is no reason for attributing to them a
character which thev do not bear. Their real nature and
function more clearly appears, it seems to me, when they
are spoken of as an instrument for the cancellation of indebtedness
than when they are characterized as money.
To my mind, it is of importance to recognize, as among the
signs of all true money, its circulation; its passing from
hand to hand throughout the community; its leaving no
trace or record behind it as it goes, indebtedness being discharged,
or goods paid for, every time it changes hands.
Let us now pass to the final and last stage of our journey.
It is only with reference to the point now approached
that this paper has any significance, since thus
far nothing new has been sought to be presented. Let us
now suppose that credit has grown to enormous dimensions,
and that, by consequence, the banking system, the
check system, and the clearing-house system have been
carried to what seem to be the limits of their possibilities.
Vast volumes of indebtedness are daily cancelled in each
bank, while but a small amount of coin and notes together
is made use of in these transactions. At the clearing
house the undischarged balances of a score or two of
banks are every afternoon brought together and settled,
with a use of coin and notes even smaller still. Now is
there anything in such a situation which in any degree impairs
the validity of the proposition that it is, after all, the
demand for and the supply of the actual coin and notes


### ---Economics-1893-0-09.txt---
which determines prices? It seems to be an opinion that
such a use of credit does constitute some other rule for determining
the value of money, which prompts the frequent
allusions to the fact that in such or such a bank the cash
payments constitute but three per cent. of the total transactions
or that in a given clearing house only a half of
one per cent. of the bank balances are settled in money.
Whenever a question arises regarding the sufficiency of
the present or the probable future supply of metallic
money, facts like these are thrust at us, not merely as
showing the economy effected in. the use of money by the
organization of credit, but as if they showed that the supply
of money had ceased to be of any consequence at all,
and that something other than. the money supply had come
in to determine prices.
Now, it must be said that it is altogether consistent
with economic principles that the relative importance of
a subject of exchange should become so far diminished
that it is released from the ordinary operation of the force
of self-interest. Money itself affords an example in point,
in the case of billon, the petty coin of small change, which
seems to be governed by something analogous to the law
of capillary attraction. Ordinarily, we say, water tends
to seek its level; and we find a world of illustrations of
that tendency, not merely in rivers, lakes, and oceans, but
in the crust of the earth and in the very atmosphere.
Yet, if a tube be only fine enough, water will stand in it,
at any height, without any regard to gravitation. And
this exception is not merely of curious interest: the
whole vegetable creation subsists by virtue of it. So in
the case of billon, with a proper regulation of amount,
the market price and the mint price of the metal need
have no defined relation to each other. There seems to
be a sort of impression in the minds of the speakers and
writers to whom in this paper I refer, to the effect that
the volume of credit transactions in highly organized


### ---Economics-1893-0-10.txt---
communities become so enormous as to carry the money
of the community with them by a species of capillary attraction.
It is no longer, in this view, the actual money
of a country which underlies and sustains the structure of
credits: the credit structure becomes so vast and gigantic
that the money of the country depends upon it and depends
from it as a trivial, if not merely ornamental, appendage.
Is there anything in such opinions which, however
loosely held and vaguely expressed, have certainly
exerted no little influence upon recent monetary discussion?
Does the exaggeration of credit transactions, however
monstrous they may become, in. any degree release
prices from the rule which has been indicated as governing
them? Have such transactions any influence upon
the value of money other than that which has been
pointed out; namely, by accomplishing a certain cancellation.
of indebtedness, producing the virtual result of an
extension of the field of barter and a corresponding retrenchment
of the field for the use of money? Within
the latter field, thus diminished, does anything less or anythling
other than the traditional principle govern the
value of money, the price of goods?
In addressing myself to this question, I desire to say,
first, that there is much of the vast volume of credit
transactions, as shown by the statistics of the bank and
the clearing house, which may, for all the purposes of the
present discussion, be termed fictitious,-fictitious in the
sense that a great part, perhaps the larger part, of these
transactions are outside the necessary work of exchange
in the community, fictitious in the sense that these transactions
are very largely the direct product of the existence
of the agencies, the bank and the clearing house,
through which the resulting indebtedness is cancelled.
Let me illustrate my meaning. It has been stated that
the entire cotton crop of the United States is sold eight
times over in the New York market alone. I know not


### ---Economics-1893-0-11.txt---
whether this statement is exactly true; but it is beyond
question that that crop is sold over and over again, adding
enormously to the banking and clearing house transactions
of the city. By far the greater share of these
purchases and sales constitute no necessary part of the
process of getting the cotton from the planter to the
manufacturer. Speculators take advantage of this credit
organization, without which their operations would necessarily
be restricted within very narrow limits, to carry on
an enormous amount of gambling or betting on the future
price of cotton. It is not essential for our present purpose
to inquire whether this multiplication of purchases
and sales under speculative impulse is or is not detrimental
to production and to what we may call legitimate
trade; that is, those exchanges, be they few or be they
many, which are actually necessary to carry the product
most easily and surely from the farmer to the manufacturer.
I touch the subject here only to show how largely
this speculative trading, itself mainly the result of the
high organization of credit, contributes to inflate the statistics
of the bank and the clearing house, and thus to
produce the impression which has been adverted to, respecting
the relative insignificance of the use of money
in our day. What is true, in this respect, of cotton is
also true of corn, wheat, pork, petroleum, mining and
railroad stocks, and a hundred other subjects of exchange.
In this view, am I not justified inl saying that a very large
part of the credit transactions, the amount of which is so
freely adduced to show the comparative insignificance of
cash transactions, are, with respect to that object, purely
fictitious? Those who roll as sweet morsels under their
tongues such gigantic figures as thirty or forty thousand
millions a year, in speaking of the work of a single clearing
house, are really deceived if they think that these
sums represent either transactions that would have taken
place, did not the clearing-house mill stand ready to take


### ---Economics-1893-0-12.txt---
the grist, or transactions the non-existence of which
would impair production and legitimate trade.
Secondly, while the speakers and writers in question
dwell with so much emphasis on the fact that, of the
transactions of Sir John Lubbock's bank, only three per
cent. were settled with cash, and that, in a certain clearing
house, only a half of one per cent. of the business was
adjusted in the same way, they inadvertently fail to call
the attention of their hearers or readers to the fact that, in
spite of barter and in spite of credit, a very large part, in
most countries by far the largest part, in many countries
almost the whole, of retail trade is still conducted with the
use of money; and this is, after all, the vital thing. It
would not in the least matter, for the purpose of deciding
the question, what determines the value of money, if the
cancellation of indebtedness in the wholesale trade were
complete, if Sir John Lubbock found additional commercial
paper to take the place of that unhappy last three per
cent., and if every claim made by every bank, every afternoon,
at the clearing house were offset by an equal and
incontestable demand. The statistics of banking and
clearing-house transactions would be irrelevant and impertinent
to the issue, even were they not inflated, as has been
indicated. In the field of wages and of retail trade, money
gets that room to operate which enables it to determine
prices, just as truly as if banks and clearing houses did not
exist. In our own country the every-day agency of money
is somewhat obscured by the enormous extension of the
check system, by which small bills are often paid. But
even in England, whose credit and banking organization
is in all other respects far more perfect than our own, such
a use of checks is almost unknown. Beyond England and
the United States, no other country in the world to any
extent employs this method of buying goods or paying
bills for ordinary personal or domestic expenditures. But,
even if the field of cash payments were far more enbroached


### ---Economics-1893-0-13.txt---
upon than it is, this would not impair the validity
of our proposition. As I said in the earlier part of this
paper, the use of credit simply means the diminution of
the demand for money. It still remains true that the demand
for money, whatever that may be, does, taken in connection
with supply, determine prices. No civilized country
has ever reached the condition, and we are not called
upon to contemplate a time within which any civilized
country will reach a condition, in which money must not
be used to a vast extent. So long as people must have it,
to pay wages and to buy goods, they must buy it, they must
pay its price for it, they must give what it is worth.
What it shall be worth will depend upon the demand for
and the supply of it, as in case of any other thing that is
bought and sold. The demand for money is found in the
money work to be done, the amount of exchanging which
needs to be effected by the use of money. The supply of
money consists in the number of money-pieces available
for the work of exchange, taken in connection with the
facility with which they can be so used, the freedom or
rapidity of circulation. Outside this field, it does not for
this purpose matter in the least what the volume of credit
may be, how high may be piled the transactions of banks
and clearing houses. Were we considering the security of
the latter, it would be important to compare their volume
with the amount of money circulating within the field of
cash payments; but this is not our business to-day.
When the present paper was placed upon the programme
of the Association, I little thought that in defending
my thesis I should enjoy the advantage of such a tremendous,
such an overwhelming demonstration of the importance
of the actual money of a country, in the face of the
most elaborate organization of credit, as the United States
has afforded during the past two months. Sir John Lubbock'
s bank and the half per cent. cash payments in the


### ---Economics-1893-0-14.txt---
clearing house cut a very small and sorry figure, indeed, in
comparison with the spectacle which has been afforded
of a great nation on the verge of general insolvency, thousands
of factories and workshops closed, hundreds of thousands
of workmen thrown out of employment, all because
a certain amount of cash, of actual money, had been
locked up in strong boxes and bank vaults. When one
considers what this great industrial nation has passed
through within the last sixty days because a portion only
of its money had been withdrawn, he is fairly in a position
to appreciate the senselessness of all this talk about the
unimportance of the money supply which I took for my
theme on this occasion. Until we have forgotten how we
saw the banks of the commercial and financial metropolis
refuse to pay their balances to other cities in cash on demand;
how we saw great and rich firms paying their
workmen in checks of $2, $3, and $5, and these checks
not payable at the bank, but stamped "payable only at
the clearing house"; until we have forgotten how we saw
great factories carrying on their business timidly from day
to day, not with money and not with proper commercial
credit, but upon the frail foundation of sympathy and forbearance
from their creditors and even from their operatives,
while thousands of other manufacturers refused to
carry on business at all under such conditions, and closed
their works,- until we forget these universal experiences
of the past few weeks, we shall, I think, be disposed to
give Sir John Lubbock's bank a rest. No more striking
demonstration could possibly have been given of the fact
that, after all credit canl do, money, actual money, money
that passes from hand to hand, is still the vital blood of
commerce, than has been afforded by the crisis through
which the United States has just passed. For weeks the
nation walked along the very verge of a precipice, under
a strain which could not possibly have continued for as
many weeks longer without hurling industry and trade to


### ---Economics-1893-0-15.txt---
the bottom of the abyss. All this time the trouble was
not want of capital, for the nation had never been so rich;
not the lack of credit in commercial relations, for the history
of the world may be searched in vain to find an equally
remarkable example of the readiness of merchants and
bankers to trust each other and to support each other,
even at the risk of their own fortunes. The trouble was
all in the sudden withdrawal of a portion of the nation's
money supply, due to distrust of financial legislation.
This was all, and this was enough to bring the United
States nearer to general ruin than it has been before since
the war made us a nation indeed.
 ## Economics-1894-0


### ---Economics-1894-0-01.txt---
BY the tariff act of 1894 the United States government,
for the second time in its existence, undertakes the levy
of an income tax. The future student of our history
will probably have a moment of mental embarrassment
when he finds the provision for laying this novel burden
upon the tax-payer in "an act to reduce taxation, to furnish
revenue for the government, and for other purposes."
His difficulty in comprehending the real significance of
the measure will not be lessened when he attempts to
trace the legislative history of the act. He will not find
the explanation in any exigency of the Treasury, where
the first-fruits of the tax cannot be received before July,
1895. He will not find it in the avowed policy or the
unavowed political needs of either of the great parties,
both of which found themselves deeply divided by the
proposition for the tax. He will be likely to ascribe the
easy acquiescence of a considerable section on each side
in Congress to the presence of an ill-defined notion that
the people are about to demand some drastic action for
depleting the well-to-do classes, and to the habitual dread
with which most politicians for a time listen to the demands
of any new political movement, like that of the
Populists. At any rate, it will be clear that the considerations
which weighed with Congress in taking this
important step were not fiscal, and that the provisions of
the new act were not studied and perfected by its framlers
from this point of view. The very fact that the limit of
exemption is set so high as $4,000 will be a stan(ling
demonstration that the measure was shaped to meet some
supposed social or reformatory end, possibly with some
sectional bearing, but, at any rate, not as the best result
of either modern theory or modern practice.


### ---Economics-1894-0-02.txt---
It is a great misfortune that the question of a fresh
resort to the income tax should have come up under such
untoward circumstances, and that it should have received
such a solution as this. The question is of too great importance
to be disposed of with so little real study as it
received from Congress, and the income tax is too important
a resource to be discredited in the public mind by the
working of an imperfect and crude system. The subject
was one for the best and most careful thought of the
legislator, in the light of the important body of practice
to be found in other countries as well as our own. So
far from the careful examination which it required, the
matter has had only a snap judgment, and the probability
of any thorough treatment of it by our government is
indefinitely removed. In the minds of a large part of our
people the income tax will be more thoroughly identified
than ever with the system in vogue during the Civil War;
and five years hence they will seem to have had a fresh
trial and bitter experience of the income tax, when, after
all, it is only an income tax,- and that a badly devised
one,- which they have seen applied for the second time.
The language used above, no doubt, implies a certain
acceptance of the general theory of taxing income. There
is good reason for the agreement between the theoretical
views of so many economists on this subject and the
instinctive popular belief, which is so often met. It is,
after all, the aggregate income of society which supplies
the fund, and determines an upper limit, for public expenditure;
and it is the income of each individual member of
the society which supplies the fund, and determines the
limits, for his contribution to that expenditure. Every
tax, says Adam Smith, must be paid from one or other
of the sorts of revenue which make up the private
revenues of individuals; and his maxim which follows,
to the effect that the subjects of a State ought to contribute
to its support as nearly as possible in proportion


### ---Economics-1894-0-03.txt---
to the revenue which they respectively enjoy, although
sometimes treated as a sounding truism, is, at any rate,
unavoidable. So far the economist and the simple polltax
payer may very well agree. The former makes his
reservation as to the difficulties, or even impossibility, of
just administration, as Mill did when he "feared that the
fairness which belongs to the principle of an income tax
cannot be made to attach to it in practice, and that this
tax, while apparently the most just of all modes of raising
a revenue, is, in effect, more unjust than many others
which are prima facie more objectionable." To the payer
of the poll tax, however, it appears that the power of
government is equal to every task, and that strict laws
and severe penalties will readily accomplish the work of
complete and just assessment. Without accepting this
Utopian view of the omnipotence of human law, which is
certainly no more true in the case of taxation than in
any other of the operations of government, we may at
least urge that it is sometimes worth while to inquire how
close an approximation to administrative perfection can
be made. It is the judgment of some important and
enlightened countries, as, for example, of England and
Prussia, that, without attaining absolute success, they
make an approximation near enough to justice to make
it worth their while, under every change of administration,
to maintain a tax upon incomes as a branch of
their regular revenue. The question whether the United
States cannot do the same thing appears to be of some interest.
If this government can make such an approximation,
the direct resort to the actual source of all taxation
has much to recommend it in this country.
The most striking defect in the financial system of the
United States is the want of some easy adjustment of the
receipts of the government. As a result of those circumstances
which have made the customs duties our chief
reliance, the Treasury may sometimes have a plethora


### ---Economics-1894-0-04.txt---
when a prosperous business swells our imports, and sometimes
a dearth when the course of trade changes; but in
neither case have we any important elastic branch of taxation,
which can be relied upon to lower a surplus or fill
up a deficit at short notice. Neither customs nor excise
duties can be used for this purpose without serious disturbance
and friction. England, as is well known, meets
the analogous difficulty - caused by fluctuations, not in
her receipts, but in her expenditures -by the adjustment
of the income tax. Continental writers and statesmen
have long pointed with envy to this unfailing resource of
the Chancellor of the Exchequer. With a tax for which
the administrative machinery is permanent, but the rate
is fixed for only one year at a time, it is easy and usual,
even after the fiscal year has begun, to meet unexpected
changes in affairs by a change in this variable element
of revenue,-a change which takes instant effect. This
use of the income tax, together with the power given to
the government to borrow on short time in anticipation
of receipts, is, in large part, the explanation of the singularly
close calculation and the small balances of cash
with which the English Exchequer is habitually managed.
The circumstances of the United States, and the unavoidable
difference in our leading sources of taxation, make it
unlikely that this generation or the next will see any
similar administrative success here; but a much closer
adjustment of revenue to actual needs than we have at
present could be attained by the use of a well-arranged
and quickly movable tax on incomes, as a part of our
ordinary revenue. Thus a proper income tax appears to
have uses which make it desirable to have its practicability
more carefully studied.
When we pass from the case of ordinary revenue, and
consider the sources of supply for emergencies, a well-constituted
income tax has a still greater importance. Even
writers who would rule it out from the every-day practice


### ---Economics-1894-0-05.txt---
of a government, by reason of the manifest difficulty of
justly administering it, will accept it as a proper provision
for sudden and severe stress. In the presence of a great
public exigency the inequalities of any tax cease to weigh
with their full weight in comparison with a quick and
copious yield of revenue. This was the case in the Civil
War, when it was not so much the ignorance and inexperience
of Congress as the imperative necessity of obtaining
money by the quickest process, that was the real cause
of many harsh and unjust provisions in our financial legislation;
and the same thing will happen again whenever
some heavy strain is felt by the federal treasury. Unless
our system is improved by the addition of some important
tax which is capable of sudden expansion, without the inconvenience
which attends any change in a tax on commodities,
we shall again see the government driven, may
indeed see it driven in any year, to lay some bad tax or
to borrow, in order to bridge over the gap caused by the
slow increase of ordinary taxation. As a provision for
such cases of extremity, the tax on incomes, if shaped
for the purpose, has no superior and no rival; but it can
best be shaped in a time of quiet. Maintained at a low
rate in ordinary timhes, and its methods and machinery
thus perfected and made familiar, it might put in the hands
of Congress a resource in case of need, such as has been
sorely missed in many turns of our affairs.
How the income tax of 1894 fails to meet the necessities
either of ordinary or of extraordinary occasions may best
be shown after a brief recapitulation of its leading provisions.


### ---Economics-1894-0-06.txt---
enjoyed in the preceding calendar year by any citizen of
the United States or any person resident therein, whether
derived from property, rents, interest, dividends, or salaries,
or from any profession, trade, or employment. The
taxable income is to be subject to the usual deductions
for taxes paid and losses incurred, but is to include all
personal property acquired by gift or inheritance. As a
basis for the assessment, every person of lawful age, having
a taxable income of more than $3,500 in his own right or
in any fiduciary capacity, is to make "a list or return"
"of the amount of his income, gains, and profits," under
oath, with heavy penalties in case of refusal, neglect, or
false return. All corporations or associations doing business
for profit in the United States, not including partnerships,
are required to pay a tax of 2 per cent. annually
on their net profits for the preceding year; and, upon such
payment being made, dividends upon their stocks are not
to be included in computing the income of their stockholders.
On all salaries and payments for services due
from the United States, and in excess of 84,000, the tax
of 2 per cent. is to be withheld by the disbursing officer.
The first point which invites attention in the general
scheme of the new law is the singular provision for including
in the annual gains, profits, and income to be taxed
the value of personal property received by gift or inheritance.
The difficulty of making a sound distinction between
income and growth of capital has always been recognized.
Financial writers have dwelt on the importance
of maintaining a line somewhere, and of so limiting taxation
as not to impede additions to the capital which is to
be the source of future income. The income tax of 1864
dealt with the subject with a rough hand, and probably
treated as taxable income much that should have been


### ---Economics-1894-0-07.txt---
spared; but not even the war tax went to the extent of
classifying inherited property as income. It is obvious
that, in this capital point of the definition of income, the
present tax gives up the idea of preserving any tenable
line. The treatment of this precise point by the Prussian
income-tax law of 1891 is instructive. After defining taxable
income as the annual receipts from invested capital,
from real estate, from trade and industry, and from other
sources of periodical gain, it goes on, apparently from
abundant caution, to draw a line between the income and
that which yields the income *: -
SECT. 8. Extraordinary receipts from inheritances, gifts, life
insurance, from the sale of real property not undertaken as a business
or for speculative purposes, and similar gains, are not to be
held as taxable income, but as an increase of the main capital
[Stammverm6gen], and, like diininutions of the main capital, come into
consideration only so far as the yield of this is thereby increased or
diminished.

The English income tax, from its peculiar structure,
also avoids the confusion which exists in our law. It will
be recollected that the English law does not undertake
to tax the aggregate or total income of the tax-payer, but
only taxes certain specified descriptions of income,- rents,
farmers' profits, annuities, interest, and dividends, gains
from professions and trades, and salaries of public officers,
- and that the taxation of legacies and distributive shares
is left, as it should be, to stand as a part of the general
system of death duties, and to be dealt with according to
the policy governing the whole subject, and is not made
an incident in the application of an entirely different
branch of taxation. It may be urged that the United
States government no longer levies duties upon inheritances
and successions, and that both Prussia and England
do levy such duties, and that this provision in the


### ---Economics-1894-0-08.txt---
new income tax may thus fill a hiatus in our legislation,
the presence of which is now sometimes noted with regret.
But it is to be remembered that not a few of the States
now levy such duties, that more of them are likely to do
so, and that in a comprehensive view of the whole field of
taxation, therefore, the transmission of property at death
did not require this attention from the federal legislator.
If it did require such attention, it may be added, then
plainly the succession to real property should have been
taxed, as well as personal inheritances.
The purpose of the provision for taxing personal inheritances,
however, is probably not so much to fill a gap in
our legislation as to strike a blow at large accumulations.
The blow is not a heavy one, although the income tax of
2 per cent. is double the rate which was levied during the
war upon the transmission in the direct line of property,
real or personal. Except as a first step, to be followed
in the future by some more serious legislation, this tax
will probably have no appreciable effect upon the great
fortunes. On the successors to small properties the moral
effect, however, may be considerable. The man of relatively
small means, who finds his "income" carried above
the limit of $4,000 by his inheritance of a small property,
and a tax exacted from him for the excess, is certain
to feel his grievance keenly; and the number of such
men on the list of possible tax-payers is vastly greater
than the number of inheritors of large properties. To
such men, and to the public generally, the word "income
" has a certain definite meaning, not to be confused
with capital by any eccentricity of a statute; and the violence
done to this understanding, when a so-called "income
tax" takes away a share of the source of income, is
tolerably sure to leave behind a sense of personal wrong,
like that which can still be remembered as among the
fruits of the income tax of the Civil War.
Leaving this special case of inheritances, it may be remarked,


### ---Economics-1894-0-09.txt---
in passing, that it may be doubted whether the
same danger of doing violence to an instinctive sense of
the difference between income and capital is not met in
any attempt to make an income tax widely inclusive by
sweeping phrases. " Gains, profits, or income ... derived
from any kind of property, rents, interest, dividends, or
salaries, or from any profession, trade, employment, or
vocation,... or from any other sources whatever,"- is
it possible, under such a description of the object of taxation
as this, to keep to any such line as that which the
Prussian law, cited above, so clearly points out? In this
case the legislator of 1894, like his predecessor of 1864,
in his overweening anxiety lest some taxable persons
should escape, runs to the opposite extreme of throwing
his net over a greater number whom the law should properly
let alone. But this excess of zeal is not peculiar to
income-tax laws or to our national legislation.
Coming now to the method by which the amount of
taxable income, however described, is to be ascertained
and brought to the knowledge of the assessing officer, we
find that the act of 1894 follows the line laid down by the
acts passed during the Civil War, by making the personal
declaration of the tax-payer the basis on which the collector
is to proceed, with the aid of the best information
he can obtain. Nothing could be simpler, on paper, than
this method. The tax-payer is himself the one person
who kniows best the amount of his income for the tax
year, and knows best the elements from which it may be
computed if its amount is doubtful. The law imposes
upon him the duty of making the necessary disclosure for
confidential use by the public officer; and under a free
government it is presumed that the great mass of citizens
can be trusted to perform what is, after all, in a sense a
self-imposed duty. But what has been the experience of
the several States in assessing by the same method the


### ---Economics-1894-0-10.txt---
general property taxes, which have been so familiar a part
of our local taxation throughout this century, and in some
States for a still longer period? We have had painful
evidence of the truth of Leroy-Beaulieu's extremely cautious
observation that "nulle societe humaine n'est composee
en totalite d'hommes d'une inflexible probite." In
an earlier generation and in a simpler community, where
every man's affairs were tolerably well known to his
neighbors, and probably differed little in kind from those
of his neighbors, and when the opportunities for investment
were comparatively few, and chiefly of such kinds as
to be well open to observation, the process of self-assessment
by declaration in some form to assessing officers may
have answered its purpose; although, even in this case,
the chief safeguard was probably the notoriety of essential
facts rather than the individual sense of duty among our
predecessors, strong as that may have been. But with
the growth of wealth and the change in social conditions
there has been substituted for this primitive state of
things, over a large part of our country, an organization
of astonishing complexity, in which the affairs of the
individual are known to others little beyond the point
which he may choose; and his opportunities for the unobserved
investment of capital may almost be said to be infinite.
State legislation has often attempted to support
the flagging conscience of tax-payers by increased stringency,
until in some cases the laws prescribing the form of
declaration, and seeking to probe to its depths the knowledge
of the declarant, are miracles of ingenuity. And yet
there is probably no State in which the attempt to tax
personal property, upon a list made out by the tax-payer
under the requirements of the law, any longer succeeds.
In the emphatic words of a board of commissioners in a
State which has been said to bear the palm for the minuteness
and scope of its inquisition, so far as the statute is
concerned, "fully one-half of the property of a modern


### ---Economics-1894-0-11.txt---
State exists in intangible forms: of this all but a mere
bagatelle escapes taxation entirely, when the attempt is
made to reach it in the form of property." * The inability
of the law to reach that which is known to the tax-payer
alone is everywhere notorious, and shows itself in such absurd
results as the apparent decline of personal property in
highly prosperous communities. After long and obstinate
efforts to enforce it, the taxation of intangible property
has failed even in States like Massachusetts, where the
machinery for its enforcement has been as carefully perfected
as anywhere, and has found constant support in the
robust faith of legislators and administrative officers.
The difficulties in the way of assessing an income tax
upon declarations made by the tax-payers appear to the
writer to be completely analogous to those which defeat
the taxation of personal property. The sources of a large
part of the current income of individuals are the very
classes of intangible property which constantly elude assessment.
The dependence for the disclosure of income
in general is on the same average degree of honest compliance
with law, which has hitherto proved insufficient for
the success of State taxation in pani materia. What
reason is there for expecting any better result under the
act of 1894 than has been secured under a multitude of
State laws ?

It is probable that reliance is placed on the power of the
United States government to ernforce its will where a
single State fails; and, in dealing with some classes of
evils, the superiority of the central power and its freedom
from the influences which sometimes hamper local authority
is undeniable. It is sometimes of unspeakable importance
that a power not affected by the passion or ruling
interests of a narrow community should come in, with
its irresistible strength, to enforce the laws made for the
benefit of the whole, and to protect the general interests
of the nation. But the present case is not analogous to


### ---Economics-1894-0-12.txt---
the suppression of a riot which has become too strong for
a State government to deal with, or to a case of threatened
interruption of the mails or of interstate commerce.
This is a case of widely prevailing inability to meet a certain
strain upon the conscience, and is not to be met by marching
in troops, and is not at all affected by the circumstance
that certain public officers receive their orders from
Washington, and not from a State capital. The federal
power, after all, can act in this matter only by making
its rules stringent and its penalties severe. It must
proceed, that is to say, in the same direction in which
the State governments have been moving; and, if it is
expected to advance farther than they, this can be only
because it is supposed that its measures will be more
severe or more strictly enforced. But what power, federal
or other, can by sheer severity carry through successfully
a system which demands from the individual
conscience more than is required by the general moral
sense of the community? Increased severity in such a
case must inevitably be met by increased ingenuity, and
this all the more certainly if the severity is practised
under an authority which is felt to be in any degree external
and remote. Not much can be argued in the present
case from the measure of success attained in the enforcement
of the income tax of the Civil War and for a few
years after. The United States government was then
supported by a vast current of popular feeling, which for
a time was ready to treat any attempt to evade public
dues in the hour of calamity as a species of treason; and
yet it would still be easy to collect the evidence of the increasing
difficulty which was experienced in finding the
incomes to be taxed, after the danger had passed and the
enthusiasm of the time had begun to cool. With no great
tide of sentiment now existing in support of unusual federal
taxation,* there appears to be no ground for believing


### ---Economics-1894-0-13.txt---
that the act of 1894 will be able to secure the full disclosure
at which it aims. Doubtless large sums will be
collected under it, for the field to be reaped is wide and
rich. But it is altogether improbable that the assessment
will approach completeness or uniformity, or that the administration
of the tax by the United States will escape
the progressive demoralization which takes place when
conscientious tax-payers find that others are shirking the
burden which was intended for all.
No doubt the acknowledgment that the tax-payer's declaration
is an unsafe basis for the assessment, even when
corrected by the best information at the command of the
assessor, would make the framing of an income tax for
this country far more difficult. It would be necessary, in
all probability, to abandon the fiction on which our law
proceeds,-that every person having taxable income pays
to the government a fixed proportion of it, to be mathematically
ascertained by a uniform rule. In place of this theoretical
perfection of system, we should have to substitute
provisions for collecting the tax in all possible cases from
the source of the income instead of its recipient, and this
with a frank recognition of the fact that such a method
could only give us an approximation to equality. It
would, however, give us in all probability as close an approximation
as the present condition of our part of the
world will allow, which is, in fact, all that can be secured
in practice under any system, however rigid and precise
we may make the letter of the law.
The obvious advantage to be gained by taxing income at
its source, beyond the mere convenience of collecting the
tax in relatively large amounts, is that the assessment is
made in the quarter where there is the least temptation to
concealment. The companies or persons paying the rent,
interest, or dividends which are to be taxed, independently
of their openness to inspection, are not actuated by the
same motives as the individual who is called upon to return
the amount of his income. It is with a wise perception of


### ---Economics-1894-0-14.txt---
the motives at work that the English income-tax law provides
for the taxation, not of total income, but of five
distinct classes of income, described under the schedules
A, B, C, D, and E. The schedules are broad, and cover
the ground fairly well, no doubt; but, if they do not, the
law does not concern itself with a failure on a small scale.
The great object is to narrow the field within nwhich individual
declarations must be relied on; and this is accomplished
by providing that under schedule A (rent), C
(public funds), and E (public offices), the tax shall be
collected at the source of the income, and not from the person
who enjoys it; that, under schedule B (farmers'
profits) the tax shall be assessed on an estinmated profit
equal to one-half of the rent paid; and that a declaration
shall be required only under schedule D for income
from trades and professions. In short, the source of the income
is aimed at by the English law\, wherever the nature
of the case permits; and the resort to declarations, recognized
as hazardous, is restricted to less than one-half of
the total actual assessmlent. This system is entirely at variance
with the current notion of an income tax; for under
it the income, as a whole, is not brought into view, and the
tax is laid, not on the income as such, but on several
probable chief constituents of the incomee. But, after all,
the practical question must be whether the tax is more
thoroughly collected under one system or the other. On
this point the remarkable regularity of receipts from the
English tax* and the close correspondence between estimated


### ---Economics-1894-0-15.txt---
and actual receipts is strong evidence of successful
administration, and raises a presumption in favor of the
adoption of a similar method even under the different
conditions presented in this country.
It is true that, by the Prussian law of 1891, the declaration
is now made the basis of assessment of the income
tax in that country. The people of Prussia have had a
long course of education under the various forms assumed
by the class and income tax since 1820.* At long intervals
the law has been strengthened until, from a rough
classification of the tax-payers by merely external signs,
it has advanced to its present demand that the tax-payer
shall show that his income falls between certain rather
close limits. But the Prussian declaration, made under
affirmation, and "to the best of his knowledge and belief,"
is a simple document compared with that which formerly
confronted the American tax-payer, or that which is contemplated
by the recent act; and it is likely to have a
much less important place in the business of assessment.
It calls only for general statements of the distribution of
the tax-payer's income under the four heads referred to on
page 32, and leaves to the chairman of every board of
assessment a wide discretion as to the extent to which he
shall carry further inquiry.t The Prussian declaration, in
short, appears to be a rather cautious tentative advance
from a system of extreme laxity,--an experiment of
which the success has not yet been tested by sufficient
practice to make it significant for the United States.


### ---Economics-1894-0-16.txt---
It may appear at first sight that the act of 1894 makes
some concession to the method of taxation at the source,
by the provision that all corporations doing business for a
profit, including banks, insurance, railway, and telegraph
companies, shall pay a tax of 2 per cent. on their annual
net profits; and that dividends thus taxed at the source
shall not be included in the taxable income of the stockholder.
Whether this provision was adopted for any other
reason than the increased facility of collection, especially
from non-residents, and the occasion which it supplies for
requiring from all corporations a statement of accounts,
may well be doubted. At all events, the provision acts,
for the most part, not as a substitute for the declaration,
but as an auxiliary; for the tax-payer, except in cases
where his income from other sources than dividends is not
more than $3,500, must still make his declaration in due
form. It is clear, then, that the act does not tax this
species of income at its source as the means of exempting
any considerable number of persons from the duty of making
the usual declaration. Apparently, in the mind of the
legislator, the collection of a tax at its source and the declaration
by the tax-payer are things altogether dissociated.
In some other particulars, also, the treatment of the
question of paymient by corporations in the new act is
hard of explanation. It would seem, for example, that
there would be the same reasons of convenience and security
for collecting from corporations the tax on their payments
of interest, as for collecting from them the tax on
dividends. The former income-tax law, which cared little
about the question of method, but cared much for speedy,
certain, and large collections, provided that the income tax
upon interest or coupons should be detained by all corporations,
as well as the tax on dividends or other profits,
and should be paid over in like manner to the United
States.* This was a most judicious and useful provision,


### ---Economics-1894-0-17.txt---
and would seem to be strongly suggestive under present
circumstances. It is obvious that an enormous mass of
incomes from investments would now be covered by a
similar provision, and also that the income from coupon
bonds, as to the ownership of which no record exists, is
the most slippery income of all, and the most easily concealed
by the reluctant tax-payer. Still, the income from
bonds and other interest on debts - so easily taxed at its
source -is left by the new act to stand upon the taxpayer'
s declaration alone. Another point somewhat difficult
of explanation is the fact that, while the act of 1894
professes to establish an exemption of $4,000, nevertheless
persons whose incomes are within that line are to be subject
to an income tax on so much income as they may
derive from dividends. The corporation paying the tax
levied on its net income evidently pays, and is intended by
the act to pay, an income tax for every stockholder whose
dividend is thereby diminished, whether he is a millionaire
or a poor man. It is clear that the stockholder in
such a case remains subject to the tax, unless some provision
is made for refunding to him the amount paid on
his account. Under the English law, where dividends or
interest have thus been taxed at the source, any stockholder
or creditor entitled to exemption from income tax
can obtain repayment of the tax thus unduly exacted
from him, by making application in the proper place and
form. But no provision of this sort is made in the new act
of Congress; and a person supposed to be exempt from
taxation under the law may, in fact, be subject to.taxation
on his whole income if, as sometimes happens, he receives
it all from dividends. No doubt the machinery for making
a rebate to small incomes in such cases would have to
be elaborate, and would be difficult to manage,- more difficult,
perhaps, in this country than in one so compact and
homogeneous as England. This, however, is a part of the
problem of taxation of income at the source that has to be


### ---Economics-1894-0-18.txt---
faced squarely in even a partial treatment of the subject;
and it is not creditable to our legislation that it should
have been satisfied with the absurd result just pointed out.
It is hardly possible that the renewed resort to taxation
upon declaration, under a law of the United States, should
not have some effect on the current of opinion which has
been so long gathering in opposition to the analogous practice
of State taxation of personal property. The wide
recognition of the failure of the local practice has already
been referred to. There has been for some years past an
increasing disposition in many States to find some substitute
for this ineffective and obsolete system. What will
be the effect of the adoption by the United States of the
same practice of grasping at the intangible ? Will it
encourage or dishearten the movement for local reform, or
will the movement pause until the issue of the new
experiment is seen ? We shall be fortunate if it proves
that the United States have not interposed some serious
delay in the progress of a change, not likely to be too
rapid at the best.

The only remaining feature of the act of 1894 which we
have to consider is the provision by which the tax is, for
the most part, to be levied annually on the income, not of
the current year, but of the year preceding. This is a
natural, although not a necessary application of the system
of levying upon declared income. In theory the accounts
of the tax-payer for a year are made up and closed. He
knows to a penny what his income was; and it is the
simplest of financial operations to calculate 2 per cent.
of the amount, and in due time to pay down this tax.
So long, indeed, as the law proceeds on the theory of an
exact determinatiol of the income to be taxed, it is hard
to see how anything but the income of a finished year can
be dealt with. And yet it is probably more convenient
for the tax-payer that his tax should come as a deduction  43


### ---Economics-1894-0-19.txt---
made at the time, from the income on which it is actually
assessed, and not as a payment to be made from the income
of another year, which is perhaps less prosperous.
The English income tax, being levied at the source
whenever possible, is almost necessarily a tax on current
income. The rate fixed by the important Finance Act of
July 31, 1894, for example, is to be levied on incomes
of the year beginning April 6, 1894, except in the cases
where, for convenience of approximation, the average income
of two or three years is taken as the basis. Even
the Prussian law of 1891, which follows in moderation the
plan of levying upon declaration, calls upon the tax-payer
to declare what his income is for the current tax year in
which the payment is to be made.* The provisions made,
however, by the law of the United States on this point are
whimsical in the extreme. The tax on income derived
from dividends and other profits, as well as the neglected
case of coupons, naturally suggests the collection of income
tax at the moment when the income accrues and
passes to the stockholder or creditor; but the law throws
away this opportunity, by postponing the levy upon the
corporation until the first half of the next year, when the
accounts of the calendar year for which the tax is laid shall
have been completely made up. But for all persons in the
service of the United States the income tax on the excess
of salaries above $4,000 is to be withheld from the salary
when paid, so that for this class of persons and to this extent
the tax is laid upon the income of the current year,
and not of that preceding. t


### ---Economics-1894-0-20.txt---
The method of taxing income in the year in which it
accrues, especially if accompanied by the practice of stopping
the tax at the source of the income wherever possible,
brings into view some possible conveniences in administration
which are lost by the method so familiar in
this country. Taxes on accruing dividends and interest,
paid by the debtor, must of necessity be pretty well distributed
over the fiscal year, offering some advantages to
the Treasury not to be secured from a tax of which the
greatest part falls due at a single epoch. Collected at the
natural dividend periods such taxes come in by instalments,
to the considerable relief of the company or person
making the payment. It is then a natural and easy step
to provisions, found both in the English and the Prussian
systems, for the payment by instalments in some other
cases, when circumstances make this method convenient.
Probably for a large part of the community the option of
paying such a tax by quarterly payments, which is the general
rule under the Prussian law, instead of the lump sum
to which we are accustomed here, would make the collection
a far less formidable proceeding than it must now appear
as the day of reckoning draws on.
But beyond this there is another point at which the
whole relation of the tax-payer to the tax is altered, when
the income is taxed by instalments in the year in which it
accrues. The law of the United States allows the deduction
from income of "losses actually sustained during the
year"; but there can be no deduction for misfortune incurred
in the year when the tax falls due. There is a
complete separation between the conditions under which
the liability for the tax accrues and those under which the
payment must be made. But, where the tax is levied
upon current income, it is brought into close correspondat
Washington for public use, the provision for the payment of the tax by other  employers than the United States does not appear, so that these two references  are without meaning, except as evidence of the haste and confusion in which  this important measure was carried through.


### ---Economics-1894-0-21.txt---
ence with the actual ability of the tax-payer. It then becomes
possible to provide, in some cases, for an increase
of the tax where new sources of income are opened to the
tax-payer within the year, and in some to lighten the tax
where misfortune has diminiished his income since the assessment
for the year was mnade.* The tax then loses
some of its harshness, and something of its present aspect
of an arbitrary levy, and takes its place as a natural and
speedy result of the good or bad fortune of the year in
which it is due.

It is not worth while, however, to go farther in urging
this or that point in which the method of levying an income
tax in this country is defective. The law of 1894
marks no advance in this difficult branch of taxation.
The whole subject is one in regard to which our legislators,
national and local, are bound in a singular degree by
habit and precedent. A practice once adopted becomes
fixed, an old method is good and a new one is visionary,
and the appeal to the experience of other countries is pronounced
un-American. The fr'amers of the new law have
made no exceptional mistake in resolutely shutting their
eyes to what may be learned elsewhere on this subject.
They have taken the course which might easily have been
predicted, in going to the legislation of the Civil War t for
the model to be followed at the present time; but they
have followed that model without thought or discrimination,
and without the defence of overwhelming necessity
which could be made for their predecessors thirty years
ago.
 ## Economics-1895-0


### ---Economics-1895-0-01.txt---
Two movements born of discontent are in progress.
Anarchism assails the state; socialism attacks the
industrial system and appeals to the state. The motive
of the appeal is a belief that laborers are robbed by the
natural working, of economic laws. Is an appeal to
legal forces, as against natural economic forces, called
for? Should not the state aim to perfect the industrial
system according to the plan oil which development is
proceeding ?

Economic theory shows that free competition tends to
secure an honest distribution of wealth. If a man were
living in isolation, his income would consist in the literal
things that he could produce. It would be an honest
income. Exchanges disguise the modern relation of
incomes to products. A man no longer keeps the literal
thing that he makes. What he does keep, however, if
competition works perfectly, is the value, or the quantity
of wealth, that he creates.
In a factory that employs a thousand men let us leave
the amount of capital unchanged, but add a few men to
the working force. The men thus added represent a
definite increase in the output of the mill. It produces
a hundred yards of cloth per day, in addition to its
former output; and if so, the value of this extra product,


### ---Economics-1895-0-02.txt---
mlinus the cost of materials, measures the productive
power of labor apart from capital.
More than the value created by making" a hundred
yards of cloth the employer cannot pay to the new men
as wages; if he pays more he incurs a loss. As much
as this he is obliged to pay if competition exists.,
All through the industrial field tests are going on that
show how large the product is that can be attributed to
labor only. Wages tend to conform to that product..
They are fixed by the specific productivity of social
labor.

Is there, at present, enough of competition to ensure
this result ? Wages are adjusted largely by strikes,
actual or potential. Does a test of endurance between
employer and employed appeal ill any way to the pro-.
ductivity of social labor as a standard of wages? Yes,
because, if men demand much more than this, they cannot
get it. Their places will be filled by men taken
from other points in the field. If they demand less,
they get what they claim. A strike directly appeals to
the natural standard of wages.
A monopoly aims to reduce its output of goods, and
to increase its prices. If it succeeds, it crowds too much
labor into industries in which competition is free. It
mislocates labor, and reduces its productivity and pay.
'Is not the world full of monopolies, and are not wages
thereby reduced?

Trusts are held somewhat ill check by the fact that
they cannot greatly raise prices without causing new
competitors to appear. If this check were efficient
enough, they would not depress stages; since that is
done only by dislocating labor, and this, again, is due
to curtailing production.
The line of cleavage that separates a socialistic policy


### ---Economics-1895-0-03.txt---
from a natural policy now appears. Compulsory arbitration
would adjust wages in a way that would depart
more or less from the standard set by the productivity
of labor. Voluntary arbitration has to conform to that
standard. Fixing by law the prices of goods produced
by trusts would introduce an arbitrary element into distribution.
Keeping, the field open for new competitors,
and in this natural way holding the exactions of trusts
in check, would make distribution normal.
A policy is open to us that, at every step, liberates
natural economic forces, and tends to make the system
of industry honest, productive and even democratic. It
increases the productive power,l and, therefore, the pay
of laborers. We take no apologetic tone in defending
this system. Evil comes through the perversion of it,
and good is inherent in it. Whether we shall retain
this system or not is not at open question. We shall
have to retain it. 'Society feels its way by experiments;
and while a few measures that look socialistic may be retained,
those that, by the test here used, are really
socialistic are sure to be abandoned. In the end legal
forces must cooperate with natural economic forces.
They will make co11 petition normal and free. For the
sake of men4 now living let this harmonious action begoin
at once.
 ## Economics-1900-0


### ---Economics-1900-0-01.txt---
At our meeting a year ago, I had the honor to address
this Association on the relations between economics and
politics. At that time I sought to indicate at once the
need of all increase of influence to be exerted by economists
upon the political world, and the method by which
such increase might best be attained. On the fact tlaat
such a change was needed there seemed to be no difference
of opinion. But on the llletllod by which it was
to be accomplished there was much more diversity of
view. Certain members went so far as to regret tlaat in
the brief time which was given for discussion no adequate
opporttlnity was aSorded them to develop differellt,
and to soone degree antagonistic, ideas, with regard to
the means to be pursued in order to increase the influence
of the economist in modern political life. The
present address is in some sellse a continuation of that
which was delivered a year ago. It is an endeavor to
expand more fully the argument on those points where
the members of the Association felt themselrres rnost
doubtful. In its preparation I have been actuated
throughout by the desire to give the fullest opportunity
for the discussion of difficult questions; and I believe
that its chieE value will lie in the stimulus which it gives
for such discussion.
It }was been well said by more than one of the members


### ---Economics-1900-0-02.txt---
of the American Economic Association that modern
political econotny contains two distinct pal-ts often inextricably
intermingled in fact, yet always separate in
principle a theory of distribution and a theory of prosperity.
The theory of distribution shows how the public
wealth is divided among the different members of
the community. It shows what are the effects of a system
of laws or a group of commercial conditions on the
relative well-being of the different classes concerned.
It tries to predict how changes in these laws will increase
the Illaterial cornfort of some individuals and
diminisll that of others. The theory of prosperity, on
the other hand, is concerned primarily with the good or
evil of the nation as a whole. It deals with aggregate
results rather than with individual ones, and concerns
itself with the separate parts otlly as they must be
studied in order to understand that aggregate effect.
The distinction between these two sets of theories is
not quite the same as that between static and dynalllic
economics; for a considerable part of the theory of distribution
deals with dyllamic problems with effects
which are essentially the result of industrial progress
rather than of static adjusttnent. It Inuch ollore nearly
coincides with the old antithesis between deductive and
historical schools. It may perhaps fairly be said to be
a precise statement of a distinction for which the earlier
znembers of the historical school were feeling, but which
they failed to grasp or formulate in precise fashion a
failure which reacted seriously upon the influence of
this school in matters of economic controversy. Be this
as it may, the distinction is a real and permanent otle.
WIen may agree absolutely in their theories of distribution
and disagree SoSo coelo in their theories of prosperity.
Marx, in his theory of distribution, followed


### ---Economics-1900-0-03.txt---
Ricardo implicitly; in his theory of prosperity he
differed from hiln at every point. It was just because
he accepted so thorougllly olae part of the Ricardian
economics that he was able to dissellt so collsistently
from the other, with a directness of opposition borll of
mutual understandioag. It was because each assutned so
fully t}<e existence of free cotupetition, and carried out
that assumption so completely to certain of its logical
collsequelaces, that this same power became a demigod
to the one and a demon to the other. In the words of
the poet,

" Both read the same books, day and llight,
But thou readest black where I read white."
As far as a man's political economy takes the fortn of
a theory of distribution, it is not sure to be very closely
collnected with his ethical principles, or even with his
political ones. In framing such a theory he is occupied
with tracing consequences from observed facts. His
political antecedents or his ethical prepossessiolls may
lead him to observe some facts more closely than others,
or to examille some parts of his chain of reasoning more
critically thala other parts. But these variations, as
far as they exist, are errors, even from the man's own
standpoint, errors which he is interested in correcting
as soon as they can be brought clearly home to him.
He can say, in the words of Dunoyer, is Je ntisspose rien}
ye sse propose Wseme rien . jexpose ) I am neither impounder
nor evetl propounder, but expounder. Nor do
his theories of distribution modify his ethics onuch more
than his ethics ulodify his theories of distribution; except,
perhaps, so far as the halDitual assumption of a set
of facts and laws leads to the habitual assuluption of the
rightness of those laws, morally as well as intellectually.


### ---Economics-1900-0-04.txt---
Or1 the other hand, a man's theory of prosperity is
closely interwoven with his theories of ethics and of
politics. Moral and political standards are a determining
element in our judgtnent as to whether a nation's
aggregate conditioll is goocl or bad. Observatioll as to
the effect of diflerent industrial systeIns on the stability
or destruction of a nation reacts, in turn, upon our
moral and political jlldgments. It is at tl-lis point that
the interaction between economics and politics, whether
by way of ulutual aid or mutual criticislll, is ollOSt conSta
11t. OI11Y occasionally and incidentally do our
theories of distribution leacl lIS to intervene in political
aHairs by showing that certain lines of legislation produce
different results from those which are contemplated.
Daily and hourly does our theory of prosperity lead us
to such intervelltion, when we believe that the aitns of
a certain group of moralists or politicians are destructive
to the well-being of the nation as a whole.
At this point, where the possibility of influence is
greatest, the difficulty which meets the economist who
strives to maintain a dispassionate ancl critical attitude is
also keenest. In his theory of distributiola he can
readily relnain a passive observer of facts. He can
measure ancl weigh the results of coznpetition, as he can
measure and weigll the results of gravitation or of bioX
logical selectiorl; ancl can gtlard himself against error
in fact or deduction by the sall-le methocls which are
used by the physicist or the biologist for the same purpose.
Bllt when he comes to measure the aggregate
merit of the total result, he has a different task and a
far harder one.

I said a year ago, and I still believe, that even in this
task the scientific knowledge possessed by the economist
enables him to cotne nearer to its ftllfillment than can


### ---Economics-1900-0-05.txt---
his fellow members of the comlllllnity; that in this field
of exceptional doubt he should ulldertake to realize the
very highest icleals as a scientific mall who stands above
the clouds of prejudice, and therefore sees farther than
those about him; that it is his high mission to be the
repre.seoltative and the chatllpion of the permanent interests
of the whole cotntnullity, in the face of conflicting
clailus from representatives of telnporary or partial
ones.

This view of the IlliSSiOll and the duties of the political
econoluist has been challenged on three grounds: as
bad psychology, bad politics, and bad etllics. We are
told, in the first place, that as a lnatter of practical psychology,
no anan can wake his judgmellt as to llational
well-being independent of his social antecedellts and his
ethical training. If he has gl-own Up among soldiers,
he will have one set of standards; if he has growll np
among btlsiness men, he will have a second; if he has
grown l:Lp aluong literary men, he will have a third; if
he has grown up alnong laborers, he will have a fourth.
Strive as he may to disassociate llilnself frotn the ef-fects
of education and envirollmellt, he can at best be but
partially successful. His political vision suffers not
only from nearsiglltedness, but froln astiglllatisIll. He
may correct the former; no power on earth can ellable
him to correct the latter, or even to gain an objective
estimate of its effects. Robert Malthus was a disinterested
man, and so was Hellry George; yet in neither
case was such disinterestedlless sufficieolt to protect them
frorn obliquities of moral vision which led to diametrically
opposite conclusions as to the conditiotls of public
prosperity. A man may have the intentioIl to be impartial,
and may be perfectly canclid in the belief that
he has carried out this illtentioll; but that only makes


### ---Economics-1900-0-06.txt---
matters worse, because this delusiol-l prevellts him frotn
recognizing the need of applyitlg outside correctives to
his judgilaellt, and often leads him to impugn t}le fairess
of atlybody else who sllggests such correctives.
W1ly not, uncler these circutllstallces, adulit freely the
difiiculty under which we labor in ollaki llg objective
judglllellts ? W}ly not recot nize from the first that each
of lIS represents a locality or a class, aIlcR that the moral
judgmelat of each observer is sure to be affected and to
some degree distol-ted by his own persoolal prepossessions?
Such a course, fratlkly adoptecl, its advocates clailll, will
keep the bad men froul hypocrisy, the ,ood men fl-ooll
self-deception, and the large olurnber of nlen who are
neither very good nor very bacl from that ollixture of
hypocrisy atld self-cleceptioll which contrives to coollbille
all the evils of them botll.
We are told, in the second place, as a wholly illdependent
line of argutnent9 tlzat an attelllpt on the part of the
economist to represelat the total interest of the public,
evetl if ila a few cases of eminellt lnental and moral elzdoment,
like Johll Stuart Mill, it ploved approximately
possible, would not be good politics. The assulllption
by all economist that he represents the total
interest of the community rather than the interest of
some one part or class iol that colllmuolity, exposes hiln
to the suspicion of being either a pharisee or a hypocrite
ither a man who over-estitnates his own righteousness,
or one who pretellds to a righteousness which he
does not possess. If either of these titles is a jllSt one,
it interferes with a mall's success as a political reforlller.
If it is even suspected to be just, it will prove a heavy
weight around his neck. Even if a lnan believes hiInself
to be wholly free from either hyprocisy or pharisaism,
it is a wise measure for him to keep out of the


### ---Economics-1900-0-07.txt---
company of hypocrites and pharisees. He will be a
more efEcient reformer if he claims a little less for his
nission and catl get those lesser claims recognized, than
if he claims everytlling allci gets no recognition at all.
We are further told that whether he be considered
a hypocrite or not, he sarill be entitled a visiollary,
and justly so. The general public whose itlterests he
represents is not a working political force. Its interests
are so vague and remote that there is no lllealls of getting
them recognized in the collcrete work of legislation
and of government. You tntlst appeal to localities
and to classes. Localities have their representatives,
classes have their organs. Each locality and each class
has its public sentimellt, which in one way or another
-is a living power in politics. This existence of a coherent
public opinion and of a deSnite interest is a necessary
condition for the social refortner, who would be
more than a pure theorist. The one is his material, the
other is his tool. No luan, however great, call hope to
ElCCOnlpliSh his results with laeither tools nor materials
ready to his hand. Even if you believe yourself wllolly
disinterested you must appeal to classes and secure the
partial good which is attainable, rather than aim at the
greater good which from the outset you are fated to miss.
They tell us further that this view of the matter represents
not only practical politics but practical ethics.
Life in a modern free coulmunity is an interaction and
interplay between the several meInbers of that community.
Each illdividual is workillg for ends of his own,
distinct from those of other individuals. Each class
has standards and ideals of its own, differing from those
of other classes. Civil liberty is but a recognitioll of
these differences permissioll to the variotls menlbers of
$he state to pursue their own several ends under the protection


### ---Economics-1900-0-08.txt---
of a comtnon law. Accordilg to this view, the
man who would sink the interest of a class in a supB
posed general public interest, is but deprivillg that class
of its OWI1 natural safeguard in the struggle for existences
If it works for itself it gets what it can sometilnes
more than it ought, sometilnes less than it ought; but in
a reasonably well-ordered civil societ5J it takes its cllallces
with the others. If a silogle group, in its zeal for the
general good, otnits to pursue its own grOllp interest, it
causes a want of balallce between the parts, upsets the
conditions of the gaule, and cotltributes rather to its
OWI1 annillilation than to the predolninallce of those
conceptions with which it has iclelltified itself. Let us
have fair play; let t1S have a fair cllance for collflicting
views to strugt,le olae with another, as a cotlditioIl of
progress for the whole society. This is the cry amolog
no small nulnber of those who think they have studied
the conditions of modern progress most carefully.
Widespread and plausible as are some of these views,
I desire to take fulldalnental issue with those who support
them.

The system of political ethics just outlilled is an outgrowth
of ollr experience with two important institu
tions, competition and representative government.
Competition has led people to see now frequently the
self-interest of the individual, as given free play, confl
dtlces to the general advance of the pulDlic. Representative
government has showll how a full expression of
opinion by those who speak for the several parts or
classes in the community can be made to colltribllte to an
advance which inures to the advantage of all parts and all
classes together. Yet in the face of these facts, I believe
that the theory of struggle and cotnpromise as a normal
means of progl-ess neecls restatement; and that the lnall


### ---Economics-1900-0-09.txt---
who looks below the surface in the study of these two
institutions, will be brought to conclusiolls directly opposite
from those which prevail in so lullell of the current
thought of the world to-day.
Does the theory of competition ,ive ground for the
view that a struggle between different parts for their
class interests, works out in an econzo1nic hartnony?
Not at all. It shows, on the contra1-y, that strugg-les
ZeviShiv each class, antagonistic for the moment to the
appare11t interests of that class, so conduce to the interests
of tnany other parts of the body politic as to work
GUt a generally beneficent result. No econelllist of any
reputatiol1 would hold for a IllotTlent that the econonoic
struggles of differel1t men for themselves, wol11d furnish
a reasonable basis of adjllstlnent, or conaproollise, with
those in diGerent pOSitiOllS. What the chanopioll of
coznpetition holds, is rather tl-lat the struggles of each
mall for llilll.self prevent others, wlao are in a sionilar
position, from takiolg undtze advantage over their fellow
nen. It is not a conflict between classes, but a conflict
within classes, wlaicll he seeks to perpetuate; aold he
woulcl perpetuate it because he can prove, or thinks
that he can prove, that it conduces to a comlllol1 interest
more wide and more lasting than those which the individual
classes, if organi%ecl into trusts or trades llniotls,
would seek to pursl1e.
It is popularly said that coznpetitiol1 is only the form
wlaich the struggle for existence takes in nzodern civili
7ed societZ. This is at once true and false true in
form, false in the suggestions to which it gives rise.
The fact is, that tnodern civilized comlnunities have so
regulated the struggles for existence, that tl1ey tend, on
the whole, to the benefit of third parties, rat11er than to
their detriment. Two cats stmggle to eat the same


### ---Economics-1900-0-10.txt---
bird; two bosses conzpete to eluploy the same workman.
Frotll the standpoint of the bosses, the trallsaction bears
some analogy to the case of the cats. From the stand
point of the workman, the tlansaction bears no analogy
whatever to the case of the bircl. The more cats there
are, the worse for the bircl, as well a.s for the cats; the luore
bosses there are, the worse for the bosses, but the better
for the workman. When Adam Smith showed the
efficiency of competition as a reglllator of price and an
itlerease of useful production, he furnished a powerful
defence for the existing social ordel-. He cannot, how
ever, for that reasoll, !e fail-ly charged with having been
an advocate of the interests of the property owller. Tlae
weight allcl force of his reasoning lay in the fact that he
sllowed the beneficent effects of such coolopetition upon
the colntnullity as a whole, rather than on persons most
ilumecliately interested. He may have exaggerated
those good effects and underratecl the evils by which
they were accolllpanied. I small not now try to discuss
that pOillt. But his perlnanent and decisive illfluellce
as a social reformer lay not i.l an advocacy of the views
of any class, but in his advocacy of a means of correctilag
the forlllation of class lines. The success of cotnpetition,
so far from warranting llS in the adoptioll of a
system of political Illorality and a theory of political
progress, based on aclvocacy of class ilzterests. pronres
ratller the advantage and even the llecessit) of subordiating
those interests to a wider common good.
With the institution of representative governlllent the
case is soznewhat clifferellt. Here we hasTe an organization
of localities and of classes, and a recogllition of such
clas.ses in the actual work of government. It would,
therefore, seeril as though the success of this system
were a powerful argulnent on the side of that theory


### ---Economics-1900-0-11.txt---
of politics and of ethics which regards the good of the
whole community as best to be reaehed by a eoznpromise
betweetl the aillls of differelat sectiolas of the eoznlllullity.
But a profouncler stucly of collstitlltiollal llistoryr leads
to an opposite conclusion. It slaows that lDarlialllents
atld eollgresses, in the really ,reat periods of their
history, have been valuable, not as a field of eomproznise
betweela loeal interests, bllt of infol-luation as to g,eneral
ones; not for the collstlmtllation of prisate bargaills, bllt
for tloe ereatioll of ptlblie .spirit.
Down l:o the encl of the last century, the Ent,-lish Parlialnellt,
as its nalaze implied, was essentially a plaee for
disc1lssio1]. Repl-ese]tatives fronl different localities
met together at NVestlaillstel- to illterchange views as to
the state of the nation. Each lnenlbel- reported to the
others the feelings atld wants of his locality; eaeh re
eeiveci froon his fellow members eilliglltened views as to
the affairs of the loeallll as a whole, wlliell he was able to
repol-t at llollle aIld Inake tile basis of pl-aetieal aetioll in
his section of the community. The esselltial flllletioll of
the early parliaments vvas the creation of a united publie
sentiment. They roused the interest of the El,-lish
people otltside of the sphere of tlleil- petty loeal exigelleies,
and ellabled tlleoll, by eoznllloll aetioll, to resist -the extellsiolls
of the royal prel-ogative to which, in the absenee
of sueh eolllmoll action, they must separat-ely 11ave
fallell vietims. It is trtle that the Houses of Parliaulent
llad lal-ge funetions in additioll to tl-lis, but they all
group tllemseln7es round this eentral work. Even the
right of the Comlnolzs to origillate lueasures of taxation,
so sedulously attaelxed by the killgs, and so jealously
guarded by parliaments, llacl its ehief importanee, not
as a means of avoidillg the imposition of burdens upon
the people, but as a means of eompellilag the monareh


### ---Economics-1900-0-12.txt---
to call repl-esentatives of different parts of the people
together for the autlloritative presetltation of popular
OpilliO. At the close of the last century, wlaell other
countries adoptecl institutions modeled on the Eaglish
Parliamellt, it was illtellded that they should preserve
this salne fullction as del:)ating bodies; and the most
glorious pag-es in the history of the United States Congress,
are those in which public opinion was formed and
public spirit roused by speeches like those o Webster
atlcl of Clay. Just as in the sphere of coznnzerce, competition
enables members of the clifferent parts of the
business community to tet something wider tllal a class
view point, and compels them to work t.o a collalllon
end, so in the sphere of politics dicl representative governtnent
enable and compel naembers of the diSerent
geographical sections to get something wider tlaall the
local view pOillt, and to see vvllat was the general sentiment
of tl-le 1lation of which they forlned a part.
In the course of the presel-lt century our representative
assemblies have ceased to be places for debate.
The extensioll of the telegrap1ll and the postal service
has given the diSerellt parts of the comtnullity lnealas of
illforlnation luore rapid, althoug-ll in some respects perhaps
less trustworthy, than that wllicll was furnished
by their Collgressional l^epreselltaties in the oldeIl time.
The press has taken the place of the legislature as a
forum for the formatioll of public sentilnellt. Parlialnents
and congresses hase become bodies for the lllaking
of laws ratller than for the zzlaking of OpilliOllS.
That this change has been accompallied by a loss in
sallltary influence of legislative bodies is, I thillk, unquestionable.
No longer do the membel-s strive to impress
their several convictions on the whole body of
which they form a part; they strive rather to form a


### ---Economics-1900-0-13.txt---
compromise in which the interests of the part which
they represent shall have adequate recoanitioll. This
substitution of compromise for COllViCtiOll as the ideal
of legislative activity is perhaps the oreatest and most
pervasive evil ulader which our political machinery
suffers. It shows its effect in the demoralizing principle
that the l-epreselltative should be guided in his
utterallces and his votes by the opiniolas of his COllstituellts,
rather tllall lDy lais own a principle which, in
spite of all protests, has come to be gelzerally accepted
in practical politics. It deprives the member of the
legislature of the educatiollal influence incidellt to his
pOSitiOtl. It makes him an agent not only of his district,
but of his party within his clistrict. It mallifests
its results in appropriatioll bills, where the Inembers
who stalld up for the general interest of the treasury are
illcreasingly rare, and those who luake claims for the
expenditure of money on bellalf of their localities and
often on behalf of private interests within their localities
beconle constantly louder. It shows itself even in
general legislation, where the character of llloderll
statutes as a patcllwork of private demallds has become
only too llotoriotls.
All this has gone so far as to produce a change in the
public estilnate of parliamelltary bodies. The glorificatioll
or idealizatioll of the legislature, so cotnlllon in
g-eneratiolls illlmediately gone by, is rapidly passillg
away. In matters of municipal government we are lessellilag
the application of the old represeoltative systemgiVillg
more power to the lnayor and those persolls appointed
by the tllayor, and less to the representatives of
the several districts; because, with the amount of busi-
-ness that is done by the ordillary lnunicipality, we cannot
afford to let the gelzeral interests of the xvhole be


### ---Economics-1900-0-14.txt---
plllllderecl in behalf of the several parts. The sanle
tendelley sllos^rs itself in eonneetioll with state legis
latures, whose sessiolas are now beilag made less frequelat,
ancl whose sphere of action when they do meet is
lDeing narrowed by eonstitlltiolls ancl other instrulllellts
providillg for a referellee of all more important lars to
the people direet. {t is l]ot neeessary for the purpose
of this argumellt to say whetl-ler this ehallge be ala improvement
or not; it is at any rate a signifieallt sibn of
the trelld of the times. The abanclotSllllent of the duty
of clebate as to the eolntnon interest anci the sllbstitu
tiOIl of the work of negotiation as to the private and
partisall interests within the several distriets, have often
eollverted the representative assembly froul a souree of
pvlblie safety to one of publie danger.
The eauses wllieh have prevellted eompetition in
business and representative goverlllz;lellt in polities from
fully safeguarding the interests of the eommullity in the
days just gone by are likely to be aeeentuatecl in the
near future.

Improvelnellts in maellillery and in business orgalliza--
tion dllrillg l-eeent year.s have developed to suell all exteIlt
that eompetitioll, in the old sense, is in lpally lilles
a thing of the past. It eall no longel be utilized with--
out loss of publie as well as private eeollotny. We eall--
not have parallel railroads or eonlpetillg water workswitllotlt
a loss, either from inereased expellse of plant
or climinishecl eollvenienee in sers7iee. We eanllot, iol a
great lllanr lilles of ulanufaeture, have eoll-lpetitiool as
we llad it twenty-fi\, e years ago, without disastrous
fluetuations in priee and the dallger of eommel-eial
erises due to irregulal- investtnents of eapital. All these
facts are so familiar at the resent day that it is useless
to elllarge upon them. Business has beeome a trust, in


### ---Economics-1900-0-15.txt---
a sense far different from that a7vhiell tl1e aeeidental applieation
of this word has earriecl with it, a thing in
volving a delegation of power by the publie to the hands
of a few men, wllieh they are able, if tl-ley please, to
misuse to the detrimellt of otllel-s without beilog immediately
overtakell by any legal or eommereial penalty.
That they xvill themselves suffer in the long run from
sueh misuse of powers elltrusted, is very probably true;
but the reaetion upon tlleIn i.S SO illclireet that we eal<
not rely upon it as a proteetiotl to eolllmereial soeiety
in the way that we eould rely on everyday eolnpetition
in the smaller and lnore inclividualizecl business of fifty
years ago. The eorl-eetives to the abuse of individual
selfisllness in the eonlulereial world today are so lllElCh
less imlolediate and autotnatie than they onee were that
very few persolls now preaeh ulllimited eompetition as
a means of proulotillg the general good. So luarkedS
indeecl, is this reaetion that there is dalager of our having
too little eonEdellee in illclividual illitiative in the
ilnmediate future, and of regulatillg these trusts by ex
el-eise of publie authority, wlliell may prove in the long
run less wise than private enterprise itself.
A silnilar ehallge is taking plaee in matters politieal
as well as industrial. Not only are otlr lrlunieipalities
giVillg examples of eombinecl aetion in the way of publie
works ulldreamecl of a eentury ago, lDllt our nations as
a whole are undertaking yet larger eolllbi nations i l] tlse
shape of eolonial eli-lpires. What will be the ultimate
result of this last ehallge of llatiollal ehal-aeter it ls far
too early to prediet; but this is eertain: that it will
neeessarily be aeeompanied b a recogllitioll of the faet
that publie offiee is a pulDlie trust ulore fully than it has
been reeot,nized in the past. A federation of states of
approximately equal strengtll ulay govern one another


### ---Economics-1900-0-16.txt---
ona prinoiple of separate pursllits of selfislo interests;
and although there will lDe some aggregate loss through
the preference of local interests to general ones, there is
likely to be at least a relative fairness when each lllember
of the federatioll is strong enough to secure its own
share of the plunder and to protect itself from uladue
imposition. But when we coule to admiolister the affairs
of a weaker nation to which we do l-lOt and cannot give
political autoIlomy, the evils of the olci systenl become
so obvious and the need of ideals in politics becoules so
exacting that even those who in their past public life
have scoffed at the conception of a higher law than theilown
selfishness, are, under the llesr conditions. compelled
by very shame to appeal to such a higher law.
The more completely our undertakings, whether private
or public, industrial or political, take the character of
trusts, the more inlpossible does it become for those who
are placed in authority to represellt personal or class interests
without gross violation of w]lat we, in our everyday
life, recognize as fulldamental dictates of sympathy
or of justice.

If it were true that each luaol's mental horizon were
boullded by his class interests; if the mall who claimed
to look beyollcl them were sure to be regarded as a hypo
crite and were likely to be abused as self-cleluded; if we
nrere constitutionally inaccessible to any political motives
higher than those of rational egoism; this wou]d
simply lnean that we were fundamentally unfit for the
task that is before u.s. It would mean t;hat the trusts
whicTl were placed in the hallds of our citizens by the
new colldltions of business and of politics, xvere of a
kind which we could not flllfil. It would indicate that
the largeness of our problems would ruin us xnorally  and politically, ass Rollle was ruilled by her imperial


### ---Economics-1900-0-17.txt---
probletus two thousand years ago. But I have faitil to
believe that this is not the fate marked out for us to-day.
I believe that the Alzlericall people and the modern civilized
world in general will solve these probletus, as they
have solved other problems which have come up iul the
successive phases of their history; that we shall meet
the new collective 1leecls of indllstry and goverlllllent
with a true collectivisIn of spirit and purpose. Not
with that superEcial collectivism or socialism which,
like the individualism that it strives to supersede, often
allalces too much of mere political machinery, and believes
that mel] are to be savecl by their institutions
rather than their cllaracters; but with a public spirit
which detnallds, as a part of the national ethics, that
lnen shall shape their course on the basis of COllViCtiOll
rather thala of colllpromise, and that public discussion
shall look toward a commoIl ullclerstalldillg rather than
a bargaill. Because the political aled colllonercial Illethods
of the past have led to coillproulise rather than conViCtiOll,
or because the successflll lllan of affairs must be
read^T to compromise where he fails to convince, let us
not say that all politics and all commerce is but a tissue
of compromises, and that a political or commercial
science which pretends to be something broader and
better than this, is all illusion. Let us as ecollomists
take the opportunity that lies lDefore us, in the face of
new collditiolls for whose treatmellt the old methods are
plOVillg themselves inadequate. Let us employ our Ullw
derstallding with regard to public lleecls as a lllealls of
evokillg public spirit. Let us use svllatever special
kllowledge we have with all the breadtll of ptlrpose
which it is in our power to attain, aold make ourselves,
as becomes lnen of science, representatives of llotlling
less than the whole truth.
 ## Economics-1901-0


### ---Economics-1901-0-01.txt---
A stranve contrast is afforded lgy the variotls utterances
of popular economic literature toucllillg the Sll5-
ject of competition. The folloving qllol:atioll fllrllishes
us with a forceful expression of opinion adverse to conlpetition
and may be taken as typical of views helcl by
a class of sincere, enthusiastic cllanlpiolls of social refortn.


" Cotnpetition is not law but lawles.sness. Carried to
its logical outcolue it is anarchy or the absence of law.
W1an is a moral, spiritual, and social being, 1lot dolllillated
by anitnal laxv. There can he no such thing as a
harmollized society with any colupetitive elelnellts in it,
and Cllristiallity is itrlpossible. Bsrery lllatl oxves the
world his life, ancl mu-st live to Ilave a life to giv. In
competitive conclitions not character but CUllIlillg survives.
The gospel of success is the great insanity of
modern materialisln, absorbillg the best brain, thought
ancl life of the race; we have been feeclillg ollr cnildren
to this great Moloch o-f success, but as a result re have
been warpillg the intellect and making lnoral idiots.
" We are coming to a higher evolution, in wilich the
law of mutual service small be the law of life. Ally
attempt to build society on a cotnpetitise foundation is
fundamentally anarchical. The idea of brotherhood


### ---Economics-1901-0-02.txt---
has come to stay ancl will not back clown at the bidclillg
of politicialls, mollopolists or tlleologialls. The years
bellillCl llS are btlt a getting togetllel- of llumaol material
iol a clivil-le eZCfort of pGrfectecT 11ulllatlity. Delllonracy
mltst be appliecl to ^eol-gallizillg the maclliller of the
world." 1

Now let IIS )llt orter a>aillst tlwis utterallce a clearcllt
expres.sioll of OpilliOIl as faroralDle to competition as the
wordEs re have jtlSt llSeCi are 1lncavrorable to this lllanifestatioll
of social force in our econolnic life.
" CoInpetition ssras the git,AlltiC Inotor tliat caltsed
nearly everybocly Cllll-illg the first nineteen celltllries of
Christian civilization to use all his l-nental anc1 pllysical
powers to get allead. The best efforts of hulllalwity,
stimulated by colupetition . . . . . have liftecl our race to
a stalldard where the lllode of livillg of comllloll laborers
is more colllfortable and desirable tlaall the every-day
existence of the kings of wlloul Homer Sillt,S. 2
Ollce again listen to this vigorous olltburst in denun
ciation of competition, writtell some fifty years ago by
a distinguishecl leader of Cllristiall Socialism in England:
" Sweet competition ! Heavenlr maid ! . . Now-a-days
hymnecl alike by pently-a-lillers and pllilosopllers as the
ground of all society . . . the only real preserver of
the eartll ! Why not of Heaven, too ? Perhaps there is
colnpetition amont, the anvels, and C;abriel and Rapllael
have won their rank by doint, the ulaxitnum of worsllip
on the lninimuln of grace. We shall kllosr some daye
In the meallwhile, ' these are thy nvorkvs, tllou parellt of
all good ! ' Mall eating man, man eaten by mall, in every
variety of degree and method ! Why does not some el-l-
1 Clezxelaosd Citizesz, March I4, I896. Attributed to George D.
Hel ron .

2 Richard Michaelis in Looking Further Forward, pp. v and 85.


### ---Economics-1901-0-03.txt---
thl1siastic political ecollol1list write an epic 01l ' Slle
Colusecratioll of Cailnibalistll' 9 ' 1
On the other llallcl listetl to Lllese worcls by a sturcly
Alnericall wlzose coul-age in delatonciatioll of wrolzg in
lait,-ll places no ol-we cail l-iglltly ilnpl1gll:
" The competition of eco11olloies is 1lOt the so-callec1
coml)>titiotl of our breat cellters svllere lnell strive to
drive lllel-l to the srall, l)ut tl-le coollpesitioll which leaves
each in fl1ll possessiotl of that proc1toctive power nvllicl
best Illlites his labol- nvitll tlze labor of others.
Colnpetitiolo is 1]0 mol-e trespass tllaol it is tlleft. 1:t i
the recollciliatioll of me;l in those productive proD
cesses wllicll issl1e in tile lart,-e.st a^,gregate of wealth.
It is 1lOt crowcliIlg lnel-l oaff their feet, btlt a means of
platitilig 11e1I1 llpOll tl-leir feet." q
T1lese ql1otatio1ls colold be nat1ltiplied i1ldefinitely on
the ol-e sicle and 01l the other. AVe IS1ld it asserted on
tlae o1ze laand tlaat colupetitiotl is slnft1l warfale; that
it is iicliisiokl distonion, every lllan for l-lilnself, every
mal1 ao-aiast his brotl1er "; 3 O11 the otl1er haz1d that it is
lnutual service; that it is altrtliDlll of a .superiol- quality;
tl1at it is tt1e essenee of the golclel1 lllle; tl1at it is loving
our neiglll:)or as ollrselves in other A7ord.s, that a correet
rellderi nt, of Christian love is eolllpetition . 4
Apparently sllell eolltl-aclietory views admit of no
eeolleiliatioll. But when we think seriously about tile
matter, we al-e foreecl to ask ourselves tl1e question:
now is it possible tl1at men of ulldoubted eapaeity, of
utlqtlestiolled sineerity, of warm enthusiasm for l1unallitr'
eala hold views respeeting eompetition, this
1 Cllal-les Kingsley in Cheap Clothes and Nasty, printed with Alton
Locke, vol i, pp. 82-3.
2 John BASCOln 011 The Moral Discipline of Business. Tke Xingdo>
MilllleapOliS, NIAy, I896.
3 Kingsley, 1. c., p. I04.
4 Edward AtlSinson on Cooperative Cotnpetition. EMze lMew WorZds
Septelilber, I895.


### ---Economics-1901-0-04.txt---
great corner-stolle of oul- economic order, so cliainet:rlcally
opposecl that wrllat the one corclially hates tile
otl-ler arclently adlilires as a sollrce of altinclanee fC3r all
the cleserwrilig cilildrell of zuen? ATay it llOiC be tlat,
after all, tilese cil.stDlitalit.s are talkitig al3011t somewhat
diSerezat t4lillgS AllCl that N&that ;.S Ceclecl Erst of all is
deSllitioll 9

V\;l-at preciselr rto re have in ozzitlcl rlleol zre Clls;cl1.Ss
cotllpetitioll) Colrlpetition9 iln a lart,-e Ciense, uleanC a
strlltrt,le of cotliSietilla interest;D. If sTvTe (3pe11 0.1i- clictiolzaries
and reacl the defiolit;on.s there gizela, we .small
fincl solzLlelLlliilC like this in e-lell oz-le of tllezn: " lS1le
act of seel ing or elldeavorint,^ to gai<:l what al- otiler is
encleavoritlo- to gain at the salne tilne; COlll-iU011 eotltest
or str;villD for the satne object; strife for superiol-ity;
rivalry.) (Cellttlry Dictiollarr.)
:Pt-ofessor G;cle llStS these rords to tell llsTvvllat he
UllderStAllClS l.)y COl}lpetitiOIl in tfliS lclrCe SellsSe 6; llell
each individual in a country is at libel-tJz to take the
action he consiclers the most advantat,eolls for hitmself,
whether as regards the choice oS atl elllploylnellt or tTle
disposal of iliS boods, l.re are lisTinoJ utlcler the l-ebilae of
competition.') i

But we do not have etlougll precisiotl il- these cJefilli
tiOllS to ansver our purposes. Ecolaoonic conapetltiola,
it is trne, is a struggle of conlflicting intelests -for val1lable
things, for what we call in its widest senFse wealth.
But is all stru le fol- wealth, competition ? If I h:zlock
you dowtl with a sallcl-bag atld rob you, is that to be
called coulpetition ? If I fit out all arllled sl-<ip anci
prey upon the comttlerce of the world, is tilat competition
? If I cheat you by a lie, are the lie allcl the
fraucl part of the coznpetitive process ? The replr
' Plinciples of Political Economy, by C:llarles Gide, trallsl. loy iED. P.
Jacobsell. I892. P. 64.


### ---Economics-1901-0-05.txt---
CQ111CS 11atl1ra11Y9 "NQ, w7OU are now talkillg alDout
crilllillal and wront, actio<:z.:'
Bllt ;f it i.s not every strllt,gle of conflictillg interests
that is to 1)e dolaolllillated eo^llpeLitioll5 we see at once
that colnpetitioul i.s a .c3trll;,g-le wllicll laas its metes a11d
1oollllcls. 1 t1<1llk we lntl.st say that tloe coZlpetitixe
stl-l<,-g-le SC; lilizitecl by collstittiollal allCl statllte laNv.
It is a st-rllggle wl-lose lzollaclaries are -fiXecl bx the .soeial
o-l witslwiXl vi1o fratnexvork of V11;C1l we live alzd lnove
a11<1 xercis o1tr :factlltie.s in tXle pllrstlit of a li\,elillood.
\Alllell xve letlt- this qllalificatioll il zzlillc1,.silllple and
obviralls a.s it is) many difficlllties beCi11 to valli.X;ll lilce
OT, 113eX0rC tT1Le I^l<)i11Q, SU11. Aziallr a 11lal, svllell colupetiLiOl
1 iS i-lnelltionecl, thinks of wilcl 1Deasts, tearillg and
l-{3z-lclil-lb each other in a death strut,t,le for a11 illsufficiellt
xllpply of food. But stlcll is only an illcolplete and
inlperfeeit pictllre of the.strllgg-le for life, even along
the 4ss-ttlteSz aI-ld doeW<., not at all clescrilDe the struggle of
cotoopotofloll al-llollg cis7i11Zecl lnen.
But exrell wloell we call to 1lli llc1 the lilnitations
placad LIPO!1 t19 S1;rLI<Cr?DW1e Of COnSiCtiX1<C, economic interests
l)r the socia] ordel-, nTe clo not .-yet l-lave a sufificient
iclea o- eco1l{)l:lic COIllpttitiOIl. It is essential that we
ac:kl aaother elelnellJc to Ot1r iclea) in orcler to relacler it
more neally coaff3tLnable to z-eality. Mxle must brinb to
tllilld tlie gl-eat prilzciple of e>oltltior] W1liCll iS present
wllerevel there is iifee lfotllil-lg cotllci well be rnore
un.soientiSc in the lDresent a>-e of .science than to leave
eVO1Ut10n Ollt OX aCCOII11t il1 OUR eXa11Ii11ati(91101 anYt11i11g
so fllndal:lnutalilfll society as colrlletitiolz. \Alllat light,
tlleXl, c1oes 611e ^l-iilciple of evolution thl-ow upon
CO1uPetitiO11 ?

'IX11e StrEl<C51e fOr eYiStenCe a1110n(> t11e 10\Ver aniI11a1WS
11aS beCO1ne a COI111l1Ol1p1aCe Of InOder11 SCiel1tifiC t110Ught


### ---Economics-1901-0-06.txt---
and eqllally faIniliar are the selective processes of
natlll e, reslllti llg i ll the stlrvi val of those fittest for their
ellvirollInellt at a partictllar tilne allcl place. Not qtlite
so fclllziliar to all al-e other aslDects of 1lature's olletllocls.
Aftel- the aI)pearallce of JDal-XviIl's epocll-makillg lDook,
" The Origill ot Species," l:)iologists Erst brollgllt otlt
tlae llard and crllel sicle of the strl.lt,gle for existence.
Rollsseall's pictures of mild and benefice lt Nature were
replaced iil their clescriptiosls by the collcepticall of
Nature as ' led itl tootll and elaw ritll ravill." Even
Htl-xler spoke of the allill-lal world as ot] about the
same level as a glacliatol-'s SllONV. ;; The cl-eattlres ", said
he "are fairly well treated allcl set to fight; wllerebr
the strotlbest, the sviftest, the clltzllinbest, live to fight
another clay. The spectator has 1lo lleecl to turll his
tllllIlllD do.rn, as olO qllal-ter is ,iven." 1 Bllt it was tlOt
long before careful observation resrealed other axpects of
nature'>s processes. AIr. Alfrecl Rnssel MWallace lollg
ago callecl attelltiool to the comparitively paillless
character of tl-le struggle allloIlg allilncals, and to the
lart,-e atllOtoIlt of happiole.ss in their lives. After reviesring
the ethical aspect of the stl-llgble for existence, he
expressed the opinion that it aSol-cls " the lnaximutn of
life allcl of tl]e elljoylnent of life with tIle luillillltlln of
StlHetfillg aIld pain." 2 Wl-lell xwe xvatcll aailalal exi.ste1-lces
as a xvhole, ancl not i n exceptiollal lnolnents, Cclll we
concltlcle otllerwise? Bllt sllbsequent observel-s, going
fllrtller, have-called attention first to the fact that the
strl1g-<,le i.s not for life lllerelr, lout for tllC life of
otl1el^s. These otllel-s are first of all offslDril-lg, bllt later
ates atld colnpaniolzs. Again, attention has been
called to a.ssociatio1l ancl lnl1tual aicl artlollg- anitnals as
l tfEle Struggle foz Bxistellce. lViotetee^th Ceez.tzzo , Febmary, I888.
2 Dal-XviniSlll, P- 40


### ---Economics-1901-0-07.txt---
part of the struggle for existence, ancl we have come to
see that co-operation atld the ability to co-operate are
powerful weapolls, even in the competitive sub-llulnan
struggle for existence.l
We must llasten on to the pOillt where, as a result of
orgallie evolution, we have the emergellce of luan.
Amont, prilllitize men competition seems at first to
take on more cruel forms than aInoIlg aIlilnals. Bllt if
evolution has apparelltly eolle back a ew steps, it is
only to move forward tnigntily and ullceasillt,ly as
social evollltioll for the acllievement of ellds whose
grall(lelllX we as et bllt faintly apprellelld. Competition,
begun far below lllall with the rlerar lDeginnilags of life,
per.sists as one of the most ftltlclalnelltal laws of alliluate
existence, btlt evollltioll carries it to lligller and ever
higher planes. Primitive competition illcl lldes a Izarrow
circle of association azad, beyond that, slatlghter for
economic advantat,e. With social evolution slaugllter
bradllally recedes into the backt,-rouold alad falls below
coznpetition into tlae region of criIne. When luen considered
it clisllonorable to gaitl by the sweat of the broxv
what colllel be WOll by the sword, battle belollt ed to
ecollolllic cotnpetition; 1lot so in the at,e of illdllstry.
Frolzo early tilnes, and until recently, the colrlpetitive
social order foulld svithitl its fralne-N^rork a place for
slaverZ; Tellt as a result of social evolution, colltinlled
for ages, slavery falls below the plalle of competition
and is now regardecl as incolnpatible nvitll civilization.
Pil-acy, until a comparatisrely recellt period of the
wol-ld's history, held an llollorable place within the
' Consult the series of articles on Mutual Aicl by P. Kropotkin in
TXte lMtoteteesttAt Ce1ztzs Y, September and November I890, April, I89 r,
and January, I892, August and Septetnber, I894, January and June,
I 896.


### ---Economics-1901-0-08.txt---
colnpetitive processes wllereby men secllred ecolaomic
gain; 13ut tllaJc in turn lla.s falltll outsicle of and belosar
the social orcler of competition.
BUt SillCE the begillnillg of this centtlry, alolzg svith
the persistence and iolcreasillb illtellsity of cotupetition,
elerration of the pla;le of competition has kept pace
With tlae rapidity of .social evolution. The labor
of very youn, cllik3l-ell has beelzL o.ltlasrecl; the labor9
even of ,^1-0Rz711 lnen, has in lllally cases been restricted,
and ullwllolesollle conclitio-ls ailcl oppl-essive practices
in llllllllDerless installces have been put below tl-le plane
of colll petiti on . WAle need not retrace tll is falniliar
ground. A former pre.sidetlt of this Association, in one
of it.s early plll31icatiol-ls' (:leclared that one of the functions
of goverlllnellt is to raise the ethical level of CoHlpetitioll.
He sa7as lliaolself sllrprisecl to filacl the impl-
essioo that the plirase pl-oducecl. It produced that
profolll-ld illapressioll precisely because it is so pregllant
with llleaning. The phrase is a t5T) opening lllysteries
allel revealillg reconciliations of science atld llulnallity.
We have alt-eacly lnelltioned the fact of association
alnollg atlilllals for mutual aid. Social evolution aInong
men reveals growth, association along with competition.
One essential feature of social evolutiola, in its lDearing
on competition, is the elllargelnellt of the associated
competitive group. Here again the telnptation to
trespass tlpon your patience is strong, but it tnust be
resistecl. Many an address coulcl be occupied entirely
with a discussion of the brouping of lnen within the
competitive social order. Thus sve earl find voluntary,
1 HeIlry C. Adattls, The Relation of the State to Iz-ldustrial Action.
Publications of the American ECOI1021iC ASSOCiatiO11, VO1. i, 110. 6N
January, I887, 1DP- 507-5O8.


### ---Economics-1901-0-09.txt---
looselvZ forlnecl groups of eluployer.s pursllilag colulllon
purposes; and al.so grollps of Rrol-kil-gollen likewise
seeking to promote comltloll interests. Agailn we llotice
a pernlallent orgailization of labor on the OI1t hand
allcl of capital on the other. Tllell we cliscover political
association.s embracillg zalitlli n themselves all illSllite
variety of competitive ^rollps; and the.se political associations
tl-lemselves llaving competitive features extend
from the szlall l-lamlet to the illiolaty lzatioll. T3ut coln
?etitioll cloes not stalld alolle. WAlitll it are associatecl
sympatlly, benevoletlce, and plllDllc authority. Moreover,
wisely clirected llulllallitariaoli.sm stren<gtllells each
group, while rutl-lless selfisla*1ess a<nong tile uleolll:)er.s of
the grotlp gradually destroy s poaTer iil competition.
The larger the col-upetitixTe gl-OUp, the M7idel- beCOllleS
tlae splle1-e for ,-enetovsity, -the la1-ger the safe scope of
pity, ancl the luilder Illay the coznpetition l)ecolne for
the individt1al. WAlittless nor tl-le progress of llloclern
nations in pllilantllropy attellcls groNTi11g efficiency in
their ecotlomio struggles. I1lterlaational coz;olpetition is
a stern fact of ollr tinoe. Is it 1lot eqv1al'y a fact that
the onost potellt nations in this great drazozatic world
wide struggle of interests are precisely those natiolzs in
wllicll sre find the l igllest inclisticltlal ancl social development
of altruistll ? As.sociation aacl coot)eratioll,
the llealing touch, beIlevolellce, love, are all compatible
nvitll competition.
Fear has sometillles been exlDressed lest the llurllanitarian
side of social evolution slloulcl lead to weaklless
alzcl cleo-enel-atioiz) and the avvorlcl lDe cotls erted into
Goetlle's vast llospital. Sllcll apprellelesioll, I lDelieve)
cloes not rest UpOIl a critical analysis of the fol-ces at
work in tnodern civilization. It is true that l:enevo
lence) manifesteci in allcl tllrotlgll progress, may keep
alive sollae weak illclividuals, NV410 in a harsher age


### ---Economics-1901-0-10.txt---
would have perisaled, atlcl that these weak individllals
may take part in the propagation of the species, eventually
leaving behilld an enfeeblecl progelay. Bllt with
all its milcllless, civilization lessells tlnfit reprodllction,
allcl, upon the nvhole, cloe.s so to all ever-ilacreasing extellt.
It plltS the feeble-minded in aswlums, and cliscourages
the Inarl-iage of paupers; vllile in its new attitucle
towarcls tl-le crimillal classes it shoNrs an increasilog
inclillation to cletain them until it receives ex idellce
that their malacly is curecl. AXIol-eover, by sanitatioll
anct other lneasllres, luoderll cinrilization il-lcreases tl-le
stren<$-tll al-lcl vigor of those Nllo do survive. Conlparisons
of civilizecl men with sasZages ancl xTVritll semi-civilizecl
peoples, rexreal the sllperiority of the foruler in
physical vigor. It is prolalDle that never in the world's
history have there been men allcl women whose aerage
of efficient strellgth in the ecollolllic sphere was so great
as that of the well ancl srolnell who toclay inllabit German,
Blltlancl, allcl the Ullitecl States of America.
Competition is the chief selective process in uloclern
economic society, ancl tllrollt,-h it we lla;e the surxistal
of the fit. But s^that clo ve llleall by " the fit " ? Msle
all knosar toclay that fitness 1laS reference silnply to conditions
of a particlllar time and place. Bold and aggressive
pirates avere at one tinle fit -for survival9 but
no^r they are likely to coone to an 1lntimely and i-llomilliolls
encl. AIoderll society itself establislles, consciollsly
or uncollsciollsly, nlany of the conditions of the
struggle for existence, ancl it is for societr to create such
economic conditions that otlly desirable social qualities
shall collstitllte elllillent fitlaess for survival. A kind of
society is possilDle, in wllicll the beggar has this fitlless,
svhile the conditions in another society nlay be most Ullfavorable
to the growth of parasitical classes.
The socially established competitive metllods and the


### ---Economics-1901-0-11.txt---
socially establisllecl ellds to be attailled b5J competition
deterluille the kincl of men who will sllrvive il] competition.
Let lne offer an illustratioll. To-clay the
civil service of the modern nation fllrllislles all opportzlIlity
for a livelilloocl to a coIlsiclerable percelltat,e of
tl-le population. Competition for adlnissioll to the civil
service in orcler tllerebv to secure a support is fsDllud
when ore have the so-callecl spoils s) stem, ancl the CON1-
petition is illtense allcl frequently bitter. This coonpetiti
5.7e COllteSt iSSlleS in the stlrival of lnen with qualitites
lcnowll to llS all. Civil service reforul does .lOt remove
competition; on the cos]trary it extellels coltlpetil;ioll,
hll-t the dift'erence in metllocls proclllces corresponclilzg
differences in reslllts. On the one llallel, the extension
of colnpetition lessells bitterlless, because it is luore in
in collsonallce with otlr ethical dellland :For equality of
o?portllllity, allcl the clifference in colnpetitive tests for
succes;s, issues in the stlrvirral of nlen with qualitites of
another sort froln those wllicll collle to the top utacler
tll spoils sstelll, ancl with qualities, luost of lls will
sa, of a lligller killel.
Competition increasingly comes to mean worthy
struggle, and trlle progress implies that sllccess will be
secllred llel-eafter b5J collfornlity to lligller ancl ever
hig-ller, l]obler and ever jlobler icleas.
SiTr..@lfrecl Rlls.sel \Alullace alad Professor Ivester F.
WAlarcl have called attention to the sl1periority of man's
selectioll to llatt-lre's selectiool. Professor Ward has
thus e=xpressed the idea: " The ecollolllics of natllre
COllSiStS, tllel-efOl-e, eSSelltially in the operatioll of the
law of competition in its pllrest forln. The prevailing
iclea, llosrever, that it is tl-le fittest possible that survive
in this struggle is wholly false. The effect of competition
iS to prevellt ally form from attaillillg its lnaxinlum
developlllellt, and to mailltain a comparitively low


### ---Economics-1901-0-12.txt---
level for all forms that succeed in surviving. This is
lnade clear by the fact that wherever competition- is
wholly removed, as through the agency of man, in the
interest of any one form, that fortn itnmediately begins
to make great strides and soon outstrips all those that
depelld UpO11 cornpetition. Such has been the case
with all the cereals and fruit trees; it is the case with
domestic cattle and sheep, with horses, dogs, and all the
forms of life that lzlan has excepted from the biologic
law and subjected to the law of lllind, aold both the agricultural
and the pastoral stages of society rest upon the
successful resistance which rational man has offered to
the law of nature in these departments. So that we
have now to add to the waste of competition its influence
in preventing the really fittest frotn surviving." '
While in general re tnust agree with Professor NAlardj
I do not think that the process which he describes is to
be called the suppression of competition, but rather a
regulation of competition by the milld of man. It
means the establishment of the environment and the
selection of the plants and anitnals for survival on the
pre-arranged environment.
If the foregoing collsiderations are possessed of validity,
we can readily see one of the tests to which we must
submit proposed measures of social amelioration. A
good social measure NlUSt strengthen the individual and
the group for competition. On the other hatld, the test
of a bad condition is that it weakens individuals and
groups, in the competitive struggle. Iwet me offer a single
illustration.

In New York City a Tenement House Commission
has been investigatilzg the housing of the poorer classes
in that city. Dr. Edward T. Devine, Secretary of the
' Outlines of Sociology, pp. 257-8.


### ---Economics-1901-0-13.txt---
Charity Ol-gAlliZAtiOll SoCiety Of Ner York, testiZecl
belol-e the COlUlili.SSiOIl RS follow.S: " There is tnucll cle.stitiltiOll
dil-eCtl5T due to overcroxTwdilag, to the lack of
ligllt acl air, ancl to illfectecl valls, ceilin<, allcl floors.
The experietlce of the ageilt.s aoltl risivol .s of the Charity
Oranizatioll Societwr conErnzs ^That; lDllysicialls have
saicl in regarcl to the clanger frozn tuberculosi.s allcl other
disSe.SeS. Trile CllaslCeS Of recoN7ery al-e STIC41 leFss because
of the 1 acL of vitalit!r dlle to the unfavorable
phxsical coticlitions llnder RT1licll the people are obliged
to live." t Here our test reveals a tllorollghly bad Competitive
conclition. Btlt) otl the other llalld, D1-. Deville
statecl that, " WAlllile the COlilnliSSiOll znibllt not be able to
clevise lawFs that wotlld directly lower rollts, it xarotlld lDe
po,.5ilD1e t0 provicle for <,-reater decency and com-fol-, ancl
for lrlore of the conclitiolas that make for life allcl health,
without necessal-ily increasing l-ellts." ' M\le see in this
last stlt,g-estioll confol-lllity to the tests of a desirable
oneasure of social leform.
If our analysis is correct7 it clearly follows that COU1-
petition is a perlnanent featllre of hun-lall society. It
begins with the lowest orders of alliluals and contiIlues
its action among the highest ol-ders of well. But it COlltinually
mounts to higher and higher elevatiolls, and
lnealls rivalry-for ever better ancl better things. We
leave bellind conLests for bare subsistellce to ez1gage in
contests for lloble prizes of the znind and fol--opportunities
for social service.

\Ve can, thel-l, npver allow competition to cease. Combillations
of labor and combinations of capital mav expancl
freely, so long as these colubillations mean mel-ely
association ancl co-operation. Btlt when combinatiolls
1 CZzz^fies, the official organ of the Charity Ol-ganization Society
of New Yol-k, December I, I9OV, p. I8.
2 Ibid., p. Ig.


### ---Economics-1901-0-14.txt---
neall lrlonopoly, either coznpetitiorl mt1st be restorecR or)
WlleTe this iS i1npo.ssible, the eolds of cotupetitiotl lllllSt
be secllred by other 1netTloc1s of- social cooltrol; a1ci if
these 1lletllod.s of social COll trol in sotne cases 1nean
plll)lic owllel sllip a1lcl 1nallagetllel1t of illclustl-ies, a place
must be opeolec1 for the colnpetitive principle in the
terlus of ad1nission to public elnployment.
It is at this pOillt i1z2portaolt to make a clisti11ction to(3
ofte1l overlooked; o1all1el, the radical cli-fTeretlce between
that socialilstic extension of govel-nlnental activity wllicl
has in RlieW the >'.llppl-tSSiOll of competitiol1, ancl that con
servative deLlla;]d for all extension of gover1-lllaental acw
tivity wllicll has in view the 1nailltellallce of co1lapetitio11.
There are certain conclitiolls of sloccess in co1npetition
wllicll 1zlally ecol10tnists believe can110t be supplied illdiVidllAllV,
lDllt lllElSt be fllrllislled by collective action.
Irrialtioll oriars all illllstratioll. It appoars to be the
general opinion of careflll stl1clellts of irligation, that tl-le
laws of iDrivate prope1-ty appliecl to srater ltsecl for pltrb
poses of irritatioll, Illtinlately prodllce cessation of COlllpetitio
1l; in other worcls, 1llollopols; ancl that as a con
ditio1l of peronaoletlt and wllolesolne competition alollg
with associated efforts, large plzblic activity is reql1ired
i ll the sl1plDly of water. A rece1lt uTritel uses these
words, a1ld as I t1llclerstalld it, he silllply voices the con
seolsl1s of opinion alnotlt, experts. " In the vast majol-ity
of i 1lsta1lce.s, allcl over the lal-ger portio11 of the arid
rebioll, costly works will be required, and these can only
be sllpplieel lDy some fo1-1ll of plzblic e1lte1-prise. The
divideolcls t1lDol-l the i1lvestlnetlt lnllst lDe loolSed for, not
in the strong boxes of security-llolclers, but irl the in
crease of 1latiollal wealth, in social progress and in
ecollotllic baiols." 1 If this statement is col-rect, we who
1 lililliam E. Smythe on The Struggle for N\Tater il-l the West.
AtlatzZic HlotstAzly, Novel-Ilber, 1 900.


### ---Economics-1901-0-15.txt---
believe in colupetition must, in orcler to secure the CO11-
clitiolls of its lllailltellance, ask for lart,er govelnIllelltal
activity in matters of irrig-atioll.
I retret that I call clo I10 lI]Ore llel-t aIlCl llOlV tllall
nerely to allude to t;wo somewhat a ntagol-listic lilles of
evollltioll. One is the Ilaovelnellt wllicll approaclleswi
tllotlt llope of evel reaclli llg-l-eal equa] i ty of oplDorttlnities
in economic colIlpetitioll. This is one of the
l-nost porelful lllovelnelltvs of the century just clrawillg
to a close allci lllllSt be borlle clearly in lllilld by any
one who woulcl ullderstallcl the great llistol-ical nlove
nlents of that centl1ry. The other line of clerelolDnlent
is follnd in the construction of great institlltiolas wllicl-l
sllllt in and lilllit colnpetitio-l, T)llt oTllicll nevertlleless
are the very follllclations upon Nallicll our civilization
rests; the institutions \0Jllicll may be likenecl to social
savillgs balllSs or de?ositories of l-ace-acllievelllellts. I
have l-lere in lnincl the t,-reat ecollollaicjtlriclical instittl
tiOllS of society, such as private property, inheritance of
property allcl vestecl iilterests. The probressive appl
oxilllation to equality in opportunities must not be
perlxrlitted to bo so far as to ul-ldel-ll-line these illStitUtiOI-S.
In the lnul;ual acljustlllellts of these two lilles of evolution,
nalnely, the equality of opporCtlnity movemellt
ancl the illstitutional lllovemellts, nre have given us one
of the weit,lltiest atld at the salne time lnost clelicate
tasks of the twentieth centtlry.
Cozupetition thtls conceived is beneficent! allcl the
competitive order riglltly colltrollecl by society furllishes
to tnen the maxillluln of pleastlre with a millimtltll of
pain. Not only does it insure progress for the race, lDllt
to an increasing extelat all lnen participate in the benes
fits of this progress. \Ale have ilO eviclence that tl-le
colupetitive orcler is llltra-rational, ancl still less need
we believe that it is anti-rational, as Mr. ILidd asserts,


### ---Economics-1901-0-16.txt---
illasmllcll as in his view it is opposed to the interests of
the ,reat lllASS of well who, he vllinks, qllietly sllblllit
to this social orcler, on accotlllt of the social force in relit,
-ioll Vilicll bicls tl-lem clo so. Religioll Slas qtlite a
di-gel-ellt office to t3erforlll, for its office is rat;her to raise
competition to higher plalles allcl to t-llilagle rith it in a
harInoIliouvs ?:)letld, slnpathy ancl love, withotlt by any
aleans clisplacine, collllDetitioll itself.
Coluzetitiotl t;ives llss a b1-ave, stl-ong race of meo-z,
ancl the brave allcl Istrolito are lnerciflll.
It has lDeetl rell saicl that as orgallic evolution bives
us tuall, so social evoltltion gives the icleal luall.l Btlt
ecoSlolllic competition is atl e.ssential eonstituent of that
social evolution wllicll is proclacillt, the icleal man; and
with comptitioll are tninoletl other lSe>,lllative prillciles.
PsycholoCically, the ego and the alter ego, self and
other self, arise t3t,etller; ecoololllically they ellgage in
nlally a conflict, bllt tl-zeir splleres of i1lterest are never
entirely antagonistic to each other in the struggle for
life. The ebo tlleself- -elalart,es the sphere of its selfhood;
ancl this ridellillb ancl deepeninb goes on until
the Christian ideal of llutnanity is at last attailled.
Bllt the vlpsrarcl struggle is part allcl parcel of the
attailltxlent o-f idea.lss; allcl, ribhtly cotlceived, elevatecl
to a sllffieiellt llei>-lat, this sstrubgle iol econotnic life
means competition; it tnealls rivalry in the service of
self and otl-ler selves rivalry in the vlpbuilding of the
ideal nlull in tile icleal society.
l Joseph Le CDonte OI1 'lfihe Bffect of the tRheory of Evolution o
Edtlca ion. Proceedings of the National Educational Associa+ion,
I 895 -
 ## Economics-1901-1


### ---Economics-1901-1-01.txt---
The onovement in this country for college allcl university
traillillg for the futul-e business man seems to
have entered within the last year or two upon a new era
in its history. Twenty years ago, when I first began to
insist that our business classes stood in need of higher
special or professional educatiol], and that this education
should be given in ollr colleges ancl universities,
my voice was like that of one cryiIlg in the wilderness
ullheeded either ly the btlsilless world, on the one hand,
or by the college svorld on the other.l
Even up to witllill ten years only one institution of
high rank had lDeen folllld willing to move in this directiOll
and to accord a half-hearted and tilnicl support to the
idea. To-day, at lea.st a clozen of ollr leading institutions,
and in this list one-half dozell of tile most prominent institutions,
have decided to organize departlnents whose
prirllary fullctioll is that of furnislling a higher training
for colnlnercial life.
The Unixersity of Pennsylvania lead the way nearly
twenty years ago by the astablishment of the Wharton
School of Finance ancl Econoxny in I88I, though the
real work was not begun until I883.
The University of Chicago, altizough its original annOUllCeInent
in I892 incltldecl the schetne of a College of
of Practical Affairs, dicl not carry out the plan untilJIlly I,
l CC. List of zzlollographs addresses, etc., on higher comulercial
education appellded to this paper.
2 Cf. Note I p. I62.


### ---Economics-1901-1-02.txt---
I898, when it opened a College of Commerce and Politics.
The University of California began similar work in its
College of Commerce in August, and the University of
Ohio ir] September of the same year. ColulnbiaUlliversity
worked out a plan for a four-years' college
course in the year I899, which will be put into work-
-ing operatiotl as S0011 as funds can be obtained. In
the year I 9V0 the following institlltions inaugurated
the work: Dartluouth College, in the Alnos Tuck
School of Adluinistration and Fi nallce; the University
of Verlllont, in its Departlnent of Commerce
and Econolnics; New York University, in its School
of Commerce, Accounts and Finance; the University
of AIiciligan, in its Special Courses in Higher
Colnmercial Eclucation ancl Public Adlllinistration; and
the University of Wisconsin, in its School of Cozzlmerce.l
The University of Illinois has requested the legislature
for an anl-lllal appropriation of $I7,500 to defray the expenses
of such a department, allcl it is announced that
the University of Iowa will make a similar request.
Now what is the real force underlying this movement
and what is the cause of this sucldell, and to many people,
unexpectecl acceleration within the last three years ?
Vii=hat ground is there to sllppose that this progress is to
continue in tl-le future ?
The explanation of this remarkable advance is found,
-in nly opinion, in two circumstances-a growing recognition
on the part of our colleges that there is a wide
and unexploited field open to them, which it is their
duty to occupy and cultivate, ancl at the same tinle a
growing demand for higher education in our business
classes themselves ancl a conseqllent turning of their attention
toward the existing centers of higher edtlcation
1 Cf. Note 2, p. I63.


### ---Economics-1901-1-03.txt---
as a natul-al plaee to fincl aid and eomfort. It is only
another formlllation of the same proposition, a sort of
synthesis, so to speak, of these two elements, when we
say it is the ollteollle of a rising standard of edueation in
gel]eral in the colnlllUtlity at large, and of all inereasing
lDelief in the value of a speeial, teellriieal, professional
edueation in all departlllellts in N7hieh sueh training ean
be of use.

TIle general tetldelley tlltls deseribecl l-las shown
itself of late in all eivilizecl eoulltries alike; England,
Franee, Gerlnany, Belgillm, Austria, ete. The new
Teaelling Ulliversitr of :Lollclon has reeognized the
existence of this need in moclerll Etlglish soeiety and
provicled for its satisfaetioll by establishing a separate
allcl cli.stinet faelllty.2
TIle U^niversity of I+eipsie has approvecl the experiD
lnellt by aeeordill, a valuable and strikil-]g reeot,nition
to this movement.3
Belgillnl has giell the Inoxrelllellt a legal statlls by
provicling for sellools of Colllluercial Seiellees in tvvo or
three of its universitie.s, allel by raising the Colnollereial
Institute of Alltwerp to the rank of a University Faeulty.4
1 Cf. no. to in list of ulonographs, etc., l-elatilng to comlllel-cial
educalioll appellcled to this article.
2 The Univel-sitJ7 of London Act of I898 ancl the Statutes made for
the Uiliversity of London by the Conlulissiollers appointed under the
said act (prizIted Fehrtlartr I6, I900), provide for a special Faculty of
Econonlics and Political Science (includillg conlmerce and industry).
Tl-Lis faculty in its oz-igillal form consisted of tell members.
Cf. also Regulatiolis ulade for the Univea-sity of Lonclon by the
Colllmissiollers under the University of Londoll Act of I898. (Printed
MAl-Ch I st, I 900 ) .
3 Cf Erster Jahresbericht der Ha.lldelshochschule zu Leipzig.
Leipzig I899.

4 Cf. Ecole des Sciences Commerciales et Consttlaires. Universite
Catholique de Lvuvaill. Louvain I900. Also: Universite de Lieges
Bstraits des dispositiolls legislatives, etc. Liege I900. (page 57).


### ---Economics-1901-1-04.txt---
If other European eolllltries have not as yet given as
distinet al] ellclorsenlent to the vie-v that ulliversites
sholllcl unclertake this fl1l1etioll, it is largely beeallse of
the existenee il] those eoulltries of eertaill high bracle
eolnInereial colleges, whieh satisfy the cielllaIld fairly
well, and beeause of the lleavy-footed gate of their lllliversities
in general when any illnovavion is proposecl.
With 1ls, on the eontrary, eireumstallees are dif:erent.
OI1 the one llancl we llacl and have no separate eomlllereial
sehools of lligh rank; that is, of college or university
gracle; ancl on the other, Olll- colleges and llniversities
are in a position to responcl more quiekll to speeial
public oleecls thal] those of Ellrope. Olla system of
lligller edlleatioll has lnally defeets, but one of its aclvantages
lies in its elose toueh with the eomll-lon life of
the people. Tlli.s acts in sozne waTs as a llilldrallee,
sinee it tell(is to lceep the intelleetual level of the illStitUtiOll
near that of the averabe ol; the eomo-nullity; and
this .sometinles means near to a cleacl level of meclioerity.
Bllt the sclleme has at any rate the virtue of its clefeets.
The steatly ancl eontinlled dependenee upon the public
for funcxs lllakes these institutions qlliekly responsive
to tTle real neecls of the eomluunity. Our device
of governillg boards --non-expert boclieEs of business and
professional <lenrellclers this eontaet between the peoZ
ple ancl higher institutions all the easier and nlore
vital, and through these boarcls responsible clirectly or
inclirectly for tlhe funds necessary to keep the institutions
going-tile life blood of the comlnunity CAll pulsate
into the very arteries of college and university life;
thus, to solne extent, preventing that stiffeninC and
exclusiveness, that Pl-lariseeisrn, which is t]le ever present
danger of all higher institutions of learning, and
especially of those which are self-governing bodies.


### ---Economics-1901-1-05.txt---
As a result of this and other circuz-nstances, it comes
about that every Arnerican institution is compelled to
ask itself " Atn I doing for the community all that can
be reasonably expected of me? " " Am I working
properly the whole field which naturally belongs to nle
and which I must work if the highest interests of the
colnlnunity are to be subservecl ? "
In answel- to this questioll, kept perpetually before
our lligller institutions, anlollg other forces, as alreacly
suggested, by the chronic need of luoney characteristic of
tlleln ole ancl all, we have seen an unexpected ancl enor
mous expansion of our American college and university
system. It was natural that when the college began to
emerge into the university it shollld unclertalze first of
all to provicle for the education of those cla.sses, which
by long tradition in the Old World had come to look
upon the universities as their institutions par excellence5
viz., law9 rnedicine, and theology. The profession of
teaclling was taken care of, partly by the fact that many
of the pO.SitiOllS were filled only by clergylnen, and
partly by the fact that the columunity was long satis
fied with the inciclelltal preparation for teaching, which
a man could obtain by completing the ordinary college
courEse. With the developnlent of gl-acluate schools the
profession of teaching receivecl its special faculty. In
the meantillle, the university was developillg in other
directiolls) ViZ.9 those of offering special training for the
dentist, veterinary surgeon, farmer and engineer, and
thus a large number of new callings was brought within
the cllarmed circle of those for shose preparation the
university existsO

It vas plain to the stuclent of education that if there
was a class left in the colunlunity whose members
neeclecl or clesirecl special higher training, and for whom


### ---Economics-1901-1-06.txt---
a special course coulcl be wolked out of college character
and college gracle, calculated to assist them in
their future careers, such a class was sure sooner orlater
to be considered as propel-ly belong-ing to the
clientele of the university.
Such a class exists to-day in the enorlllous number
of lnen ellgagecl in various bralclles of T)usilless in the
United States, for which a higher training is useful or
indispensable. It was, therefore, a matter of logical
necessity for the university to reacl-l Ollt and try to
satisfy the legitilnate denlallds of those classes, under
penalty of seeillg itself sllut ollt from that reasonable
influence over their lives allcl careers, which belollgs to
the organization affording the professional training of
ally class, and in addition perhaps of seeing a new kind
of illstitution grow up, svhich, in answering the demal-ld
for this training, would clivert from the university untolcl
sources of strength and power.
Of course, this result was not reacllecl in the unisrersity
itself without grave contest. It was asserted, with
a certain show of reason7 that there was no need of
offerirlg any new facilities in this clirection, since the
public was satisSecl with the existing opportunities.
This was proved by the fact that there were alreacly
young lnetl taking the old college course, or at least
pursuillg studies within the wicle lilllits of the new
elective systeln, who were lookillg forward to going into
business, and that they seemed srell satisfied with the
course that they were taking; that, in a word, for this
callint, as had been claitned in regarcl to so many
others, the proper training was simply the traditional
literary and historical education, luakillg its subjects
first o:E all well eclucated ,relltlelnen, aIld then trustillg
to them to Illake their way in the business world by the


### ---Economics-1901-1-07.txt---
aicl of that developecl and disciplined illtellect, which
the severe traillino- of the present courses secures. Ful--
tllenllore, it was clollbtful whether it was a goocl iclea
for a young l.lall to go to college who intended to go
into business, since he woulcl be wastillg on college
bellclles the very years he needed tnost for learning t1le
details of his future callillg; and Inore illlportallt than
all, there was I10 well clefirled curriculuIn, which a college
could conscientiously recolnlllend to a young Inan
as wol-th his xvllile to take, at a11 similar in eharacter to
the cotlrses in law, lnedicille, or theology.
These al-gllments, combillecl with the lack of money
to llnclertalce new fllilctions, have kept Illost of our institutions
frozn orgaz:lizint, such clepartnlents up to the
present.

The ansu7er vo the first al^gllzzlellt is siIlople. The fact
that there are luatly lnen who take now a college course
ancl then gO into bllSilleSS, it iS clailnecl, I lJelieve, that
over 30 per ceIlt. of the Yale graduates clo, as a luatter
of fact, go into cotnlllercial life cloes not prove that
tlaese men prefer such a course to one bettel aclaptecl to
their lleecls; and still less does it prove that tl-lere are
not hundrecls allcl tilousands of young men in ttle country
who do not at present go to college at all) bllt nvho
would go if they felt that tllev coulcl get solnetlling of
more ;z-lllllediate lDellefit to thetll than the olcl-fashionecl
curricllla) or the old-fashioned stuclies. It is c30u1Dtless
true that if the only lligller illStit11tiOll in l;he cotntnullity
were a law school, tnanwr young men would take this
course) elrCll tlaollC 1l tneir purpose were to practice meclicine;
ltLt this cloes IlOt prove that a law school is
the best) or even a goocl coursW of preparation for lneclici
2le, 1lor that the clemand :ror medical education is fully
omet by the lar school.


### ---Economics-1901-1-08.txt---
I 5 I

Tlais argument has, however, a certain practical weight
and is llearcR most often, perhaps, al:llong business men
thetnselves. It is, llowes7er, the satne old objection rhicll
has been raisecl at,ain.st higher eclucatioll in every clepartrnellt,
viz.: that young men slloulcl begin with the
A, B, C, of the business or professioll in practical life
rather than svaste tlaeir time on tlleoretical courses in
college. The olcl-fashioned svay to study meclicine was
to begin by harnessitlg up the doctor's llorse, as he preparecT
to go his rounds, following this up by takirlg
medicille to the patiellts, and vasllillg and cleallillg the
mortars and pestles used in their preparation. The lawyer
began by eopying papers, and the nlercllatlt by
sweeping Ollt the snop; the book-lDinclillg apprentice, b),r
waslling the dinner clishes for tl-le housewife, etc. But
this idea has alreadr been g-ivell up iu the case of cel--
tain itllportant callings, and tnust gradually disappear in
the case of tnany others.l
As to the secoolcl pOillt, tl-lere is llncloubtedly sozne
danger that the young well wl-lo spelld from seven to
eight years in the study of Ivatin, Greek and matllematics,
(>r even in the study of Frencll and Gertlan, and llatural
science, may acquire, if not a taste for literary callings, at
least a distaste for mercantile life. But this cloes not t,)rove
that the pursuit of a llighel- course of study, which sl-loulcR
be related more closely to their future xvork w0111cl have
the same effect. The study of the history and methods
of insurance, for example, in all their different aspects,
need not of itself destroy all interest of young
men in the business of insurance as a practical career;
on the contrary, it woulcl very probalDly inerease the
lC:f. no. II in the list of monographs, etc., on commelcial education
appended to this paper.


### ---Economics-1901-1-09.txt---
student's interest itl the subjeet, and the knowledge of
its wider bearings might well lighten the burden of its
routine, as well as sharpen the intelleet in its purstlit,
and in so far qualify the eanclidate for everl the more
teehnieal sicles of the work.
As to the third objeetioll on the part of college men,
that there is no well reeognized eurrieulum whieh ean
with a good eonseienee be reeomnlenclec1 to a young tnan
as likely to qllalify him better for his busil-less life9 we
nlust adlnit that this proposition has been true down to a
eomparatively reeent period, and is even yet in large measure
true. But this has been the ease in the early history
of all professional and teehnieal stucRy. Compare the
eurrieululll of the law sehool at Harvarcl to-clay with
that of the first law sehool in the eountry, or the present
medieal sehool in Harvard with the beginning of this
sehool a eentury ago, or present day teehnieal training
with the eurrieulum for the first sehools of teehnology.
We have not, it must be adlnitted, worked out as yet
any body of doetrine or group of studies, theoretieal or
praetieal, whieh will eompare favorably with the systel-n
applied to law, medicine, theology or eng-ineering.
But we have at least the beginning of sueh a eurrieululll,
and, even, as it is, a eourse worth the while of young
men to take who desile to learn something of the history
and wider bearings of their future earnings; indeed,
something whiell it is worth their while to take as a
mere elelnent in a liberal edueation, if nothillg else.
And in any ease, we must begin at sol-ne time to work
out sueh a eurriellluln, and wl-ly not now as well as ever ?
But the present remarkable development has eome
about not only beeause our colleges anc1 universities
have begun to reaeh out, c1riven by the law of their own
internal development, to enter this new and unoeeupied


### ---Economics-1901-1-10.txt---
field, but the business world on the other hand, has begun
to feel the neec1 of such traillil1g aIld to turn naturally
toward the great eellters where other earnings and
profession.s l eeeive help. It was a Philaclelphia merehant
and marlufaeturer x^ho first proposed to a leacling
institt1tioll the desirability of supplying this need and
offered to assist it finalleially in orgallizing the work.l
Allc1 it was tl-le Ameriean Ballkers' Assoeiation, wllieh,
attraeted by the un derlying thought and idea of the
XVharton Sel-lool of Fillanee and Econol-ny, first 11rged in
a powerful and effeetive way on ollr lligller institutions
the desirability of organizing silnilar departments at
other pOi1ltS in the eov1ntrs.2
It has been, as a rule, business men who have stood
behind the movelllent, either as endowers of sehools or
clepartlnellts, or members of boards of trustees, in sueh a
way that the efforts of those eollebe men who believed
in the movement eot1ld be made effieient. Notably in
the movement at Columbia, whieh it is true has not as
yet resulted in the aetual establishment of a department,
it was the New York Chamber of Comtneree whieh supplied
the energy neeessary to earry it to its present development.
3

Now I take it that this has eoone about from several
different eauses. In the first plaee, sueeessful business
men desiring that their sons slloulel sueeeed theln i n
business, yet desiring also that they should beeome
' Cf. Plan of the Virharton School submitted to the trustees of the
University of Pennsylvallia by Joseph Wharton, Esq., Philadelphia,
I88I .

2 Cf. Education of EBusiness Men, I, II, III, IV, American Bankers'
association, I 89 I-I 894.
9 Cf. Report of the committee of foreign commerce of the Chamber
of Commerce of the State of New York, on the subject of commercial
education . New York, I898.


### ---Economics-1901-1-11.txt---
educated men of the world, as well as successful business
tnen, felt that the olcl curriculum did not offer the sort
of tllillg whicla they wislled. The; clicl not see why
their sons cotllci not be learrlillg solllething bearing on
their future business svllile acquiring a liberal eclllcatioll.
Various attetllpts have leen macle to satisfy this
difficulty in different vays, allcl lately the AlnericaI-l
Bankers' Association has clrafted a schelne for higher
eCiIICatiOIl in the prillcipleS and practiee of ballkiIlg for
clerks atld officers collllectecl with ballkillg in.stittltiollss.l
The sal-he plall has been sug^e-estecR to the railwavs of the
coulotry for advallceci courses ila the lDrincil)les ancl practice
of trallspol-tatiotl for tlleil- ellaployes9 Alacl thus
the business svorlcl i-las shown, in more cli-rectiolls tlaall
one, a growing feeling of the need of some .SUC}1 OplDOrtUIlity
for lligller col-nlnercial traillizag.
Anothel- call has come from many parents, a llulnber
growing more rapidly everr clay, who are able and svillillg
to sellcl their SOllS through the secondary schools,
allcl would like to ssellcl them through the lligllel schools,
if the latter could offer tlleln a curriculum pl-eparillg
more directly for business thaIl the literary courses
which are considered the chief feature of our present
college curricululn. TiliS call is lsecon-litlg more allcl
more illlperative.

\Ve sllollld llliSS another importaz-lt element if we
did not call attention to the fact tl--lat busine.ss well
thelnselves ale each clay becolllillg luore clearly aware
that lack of suitable education is one of the most seriotls
defects in their elllployts, ancl that a proper training
1 Cf. Address by W. C. Cornwell, President of the City National
Bank, Buffalo.

2 Cf. Address by Walter G. Berg, Chief Engineer of Lehigh Valley
Railroad.


### ---Economics-1901-1-12.txt---
would inerease greatly their value to them, and consequelltly
to the eolnonullity.
:\/Toclern btlsilless is beeoming more comples and requires
a higher order of talent and a hiCher degree of
preparation in order to seellre sueeess than ever before.
Our business tnell are eolning to see that in the great
worlcl struggle for tracle and industry, that nation will
slleeeecl best other things beilag equal- wllieh has proviclecl
for the most eareful ancl eolllplete system of edueation
aclequate trainiIlg for all the national talent of
every kincl aIlcl ila sueh a system opportunity for higher
COllllllel-Cial trailling illllSt also be ineluded.
It is only another way of statilag tl-le truth eontaillecl
in the above proposition when I say that this cleveloplnelat
has eolne about through a rising standarcl of
eclueatioll in tl-le eollllllUolity as a whole and a growing
aIiDreeiatioll of the slalue of speeial training for speeifie
callings.

The modern wolld illsists, as never before, that the
elasses aspil-illa to leaclersllip in any department of life,
shall be eclueatecl and ellltivated. The inereasilog
wealth of soeiety resllltvs in a nesr clemancl for the things
wlliel-l wealth eall llelp provide, ancl among these, higher
ecllleatioll- intelleetllal, moral, esthetie. The business
elasses are to-clay rlllillg nc)t only our orn soeiety, but
that ot Burope, to a treater extent than ever before.
It wa.s formerly the orator, the<o-eneral, the priest, the
noble, who lecl allcl governed soeiety allcl srere tl-le
moclels for the yolltll of the eollllnullity. It i.s to-day,
the g-reat banker, the railroad residellt, the mallufaetul-
er, the treat lnerel-lant, the great business organizer
in ang,- clireetion, who eontrols our life Inore ancl lnore.
With their accumulatillg xvealth, they feel the necessity


### ---Economics-1901-1-13.txt---
themselves of higher edlleation, and soeiety demands it
of them as never before.
There is, llloreover, a growing belief in the effieaey
of professional ecltleation ancl speeial training as a
valuable or indispensable elen-zent in the preparation of
the young lllan for l-lis ftlture ealling. A eentllry ago
almost nolDocly in tl-lis COlllltl-y tilougllt of the 1leeessity
of sellool training for any calling or profession. Tl-le
lawyer, pllyrsieian, elergylllall, engilleer, farlller, teaeher,
sougllt his preparation, not in sonce tecllllieal school,
but in the offiee, the stucly, the store, the shop, the field.
To-clay the vietory of the srell-plallned currieululn over
the llapha%ard training of the sllop, the faetory, the
offiee, the store or the farlll, is well assurecl, and it is
otlly a question of time when the same thing will be
true of l-nerean tile ancl eolllmereial life also. l
Sueh is a lDrieE descriptiotl of the present eondition of
the question as to what is the relation of the college and
university to lligller eommereial training. It is also an
explanation, and to a eertain exteIlt, a justifieation, of
the development wllieh has thus far taken plaee. All
exalnination of what has taken plaee up to the present
allcl a searcll into the eallses llnclerlyillg- tiliS development,
seenlecl to llle, on the whole, to lDe the most satisfactory
wa of settillg forth my views upon this stlbjeet,
ancl I Inay I1OW proeeecl to formlllate Irly icleas in a little
more deEnite way, as to the present and future poliey,
ancl submit the result to your eonsideration.
I beliexe the Auleriean university ought to take the
same attitucle toward the higher training of the future
merehant, railway or insuranee manager, as it has so
long taketl towarcl the professioilal edueatioll of the
1 C:f. no. 5 in the list of Inollograplls on corzlmercial edtlcation appellded
to this paper.


### ---Economics-1901-1-14.txt---
future lawyer, physieiall or engineer. In other words,
I believe it sholllcl reeogllize it as one of its ploper and
neeessary funetions to provide the best faeilities of whieh
it is eapable for this trailling, aIlcl I aIn happy to say,
that in l-ny OpilliOIl the question iS no longer whether
the Al-lleriean uIliversity shall take this attitude, but
simply lloev it ean reeognize this ftlnetion allcl earry it
out Inost efficielltly and satisfaetoriln7.
The question as to wl-lat sllolllci be the fundamental
element in the higher edueation and traiIlillg of the futtlre
business mall, is to l-he eolllparatively silnple. It should
be those branelles of seienee wlliell deal with the departllleIlts
of liNe to whiell btlsiness belongs. BusiIless
is, of eollrse, a soeial aIld eeonomie phenomenon, allcl
to sotne extetlt, a politieal one, aIld eollsequently the
stucly of the politieal and soeial seienees, using that
terIn in a large sense, is the Ilatural oeeupation of the
man who is prepariIlt, hionself for a btlsiness eareer.
I eallnot, of eourse, on this oeeasioll ellter into an extended
diseussion of the partielllar brallelles whieh ollght
to be inelllcled in SllCll a eurrielllllm, but of all the
politieal allcl soeial seiellees, it seelns to me that eeonomies
should be aeeeptecl as the fllnclallleIltal element
in an7 sllell eourse. It is just at this point that the interest
of this assoeiation is tBost intilllately involvecl.
The seiellee of politieal eeonomy has the same relatiorl
toward this whole department of edueation, as mathenlatllies
to the preparatioll of all engiIleer, or as pllysiology
or anatouly to lneclieal trainin>. It has, moreover,
the aclded advatltage of beiIlg the most llighly cleveloped
of all these subjeets, theoretically or praetieally, botl-l as
a lnatter of seienee anci as a Inatter of pedagogy. The
mall nvho grapples in earnest with problems of eeonotnies
will seeure, if notlling else, a tnental diseiplille


### ---Economics-1901-1-15.txt---
ARmerican Economic Sssoci.tiooz.
which may well be compared with that whicla the study
of mathematics or other abstruse subjects may give.
This has been lny idea from the beginning, and I aln
gratifiecl to fincl it substantiated atlcl clevelopecl theoretically
and practically in so many of the strictly university
clepartments wllicll have beetl organizecl for this
purpose either in Europe or in the United States.
Political economy, theoretic or applied, illcludes, of
cour.se, a wicle rallge of subjects, such as fizlance, banling,
insul-allce, etc.; etc., at least in tlleirgeneralaspects.
But I atll not contellt with the illtroductioll of these
subjects alone. I l)elieve that all those slllDjects necessary
to all understanclillg of the complicatecl inclustrial
ulechanisln of modern life shoulcl be included witl-lin
such curriculum, coznlllercial geot,raplly, colulnercial law
ancl sinlilar sulDjects.
I slloulcl go still fllrtllel-. I shoulcl accept any practi
cal subject wllicll call be Inade a serious illtellectual
pursuit, if by so doing, I could advance practical knowledge
and increase illtellectllal training. Thus, for illstallce,
the whole system of accollntillg, or as it is some
times called with a sneel-illg collllotatioll " boolkeepinc,
" I should wake an element in all such curricula.
The theory of accounting is as strictly a scientific
subject as the theory of political ecollolny itself, and
steady application to this subject offers a stimulatD
ing al-ld valllable mental discipline. It is, moreover,
an efficient lneal-ls of presentillg the facts of inclustrial
orgallizatioll in a concrete and clirect way. The study
of boolkeepillg brings to light, irl one form or another,
the cleeper underlyillg problenls in connectioll with the
organization o-f l:)usiness. The stlldy of lllunicipal
accolillts offers, for example, a direct road to understanding
the clifficlllties and the lllecllanistn of public


### ---Economics-1901-1-16.txt---
corporatiolls. I would develop, in a word, so far as
possible the practical as well as the theoretical sides of
insurance, banking and similar departments of industry.
I Snd, alnong others, the foliowillg sul:jects alreacly
offered in the curricula establislled in these new departnellts:
economic geography, history of coml-nerce, business
organization and managemellt, commercial law,
transpol-tatioll, money and banking, ulaterials of commerce,
contracts, personal property, tlleol-y of accounts,
aucliting, illsurance, statistics, corporation finallce.
I neecl not here go into ally further detail; I desire
oally to emphasize the fact that in my opinion any curriculum
for higher collllllercial education wllicll does
ot give reasollable attelltiol-l to what might be callecl
the practical aspects of business life will not accomplish
the best results.

I alll not only in favor of the universities undertalillg
this fllllctioll of proviclillg lligl1er edllcation for business
rnell, bllt I alll in favor of plltti21g these elelllents into
such a sllape that a rollllg lllall can feel that he is following
Ollt a s;57stel-Ilatic course of study wllile plll-SUillg
it. I believe also that the university should allllounce
in a defillite forul that it proposes to offer a cllrriculum
for the benefit of those lnen expectiIlg to go into business,
exactly as it allllollllces tl1at it l1as a laxv scl1ool
or a meclical scl1ool. I make this statelllellt because
sorlle of our ulliversities, which have ilg the xvide range
of their elective studies a g,reat lnally of these eleluents
svl1icll I have l-llentiolaecl, refuse to regarcl it as clesirable
to aclcl the other subjects which I have suagested, or
to call attention to the fact that they ofier facilities which
would be worth the while of oung rnen to take ad-
07alltage of, before elltering upon their active business
liv es.


### ---Economics-1901-1-17.txt---
It seems to llle that it would be just as reasonable to
expect the average young man to select the subjects
withollt assistance which woulcl be of special value to
hilll as eolnmercial trailling frotn a list of a tllousand
elective courses, as it woulcl be to expeet the young tllall
looking forward to law to select in the salne xvay the
subjects which would be of nlost advantage to him, if
these letal subjects xvere thrown into a pot along with
the rest. I believe that it is the duty of the university,
as such, to assist in eclllcating the community to the clesirability
of taking higher professioleal and teehnieal
education; and one of the most efficient ways of doing
this grantecl that the university has llndertaken this
function=-is to call attention to the Sact that it claitlls
to be doing that very xvork. The institution which offers
such facilities and does 1lot take the paills to inforl-
n the public of the fact is not, in uly opinion, ClOillg
its cluty toward the community. We college men sometimes
forget what an extremely small part we play today
in the life of the Ameriean people. To the average
Alnerican boy tTle college or university is still an Ullknown
territory, with the lnention of wllieh he eonnects
no very clefilaite iclea. A!tally of tl-lel-n do not know
whetller there be any university or not, or if there is
sueh a thing, svhat it is, ancl what its pllrpose. Bllt when
yoll tell the boy who has a notion that he woulel like to
be a physieiall, that the university orfers the ehallee to
learn how to beeome a physieiall, ancl if you tell the
boy \07:o WOtllCl like to be a better fal-luer, that the university
offers faeilities for aequiring that aclded infomlation
and experienee he would like to have, the llotiOll
beeomes definitely eoncrete to lliln, and he looks forward
with pleasure and zest to the idea of attellcling sueh an
instittltion. When yotl say to the boy who is going into


### ---Economics-1901-1-18.txt---
business that the university offers him the opportunity
to prepare hilnself for such work, you ^rill find that his
attitude toward the university will be an entirely new
one, and that an entirely new element of the community
- a most nulnerous and nlost important element- will
have been brought within the influence of the university.
The next important pOillt relates to the form of orgallization
of this work and its integration into the
rest of the ullix7ersity system. I think there is little
doubt that this will vary with each institution and its
needs, and I think it is desirable that there slloulcl be
the utmost liberty in this respect for the fullest ancl
freest experimentatioll. My own feeling- based upon
thirteen years' experience in connectioIl with the \Alharton
School of Finance and Scollolny, i 1l which xve
tried lnany clifferent scheIlles- is that the typical forln
will be the regular four-years' course parallelint, the traditional
college course, but strongly inclining in spirit
and forlol, rather to the techllical than to the literary
course.

Of the existillb departments, Pennsylvania, Chicago,
California, the Colunlbia scl-leme ancl the University of
Wiscollsin, have adoptecl the four-year plan and each
with the exception of the Columbia plan offers as the
croxvn of the work a bachelor's clegree. The IJniversities
of B/liclligan allcl Verlllont have adopted in essence the
twoyear course, coverillg the last two years in college,
admitting all who have con-pleted the sopllomore year in
any course in college; while Dartlllollth college has
adopted a two-year plan, adlnitting. llowerler, only those
who have colllpleted the juniol yeart thlls making the
second year graduate in character.
And Ellally, if as Presiclent Hadley has told us in his
address before the Vanderbilt University at its recent


### ---Economics-1901-1-19.txt---
I 62

celebration, the chief purpose of the university or eolle-
e is not the imparting of inforlnation or the gis7ing
of a special or technical traillillgortlledeveloplllent of
scholars, bllt the secllring of that breacith of view and
wiclellecl sylnpatlly wllicll is the result of the personal
illtercotlrse of tllollsands of young meJl tTlrotlgll a period
of thl-ee or four years vlllcler college azad university inflllence,
how vastly will tl-lis illflllellee for good in ever
direction be strellgthened and incre-asecl, wllel-l in acl
ditioll to the hllllclrecRs of lotllag l-nell in our colleges now
preparing for the professions we shall have otlle- lllln
dreds preparillg for coulonercial life. And this will sllrely
be the case if the ulliversi tie.s recogIlize their duties
towarcl this great and growing class of our colllmtlIlity.
If tl-le business classes are destined to have all ever-increasillg
illflllellce in ollr society 110W necessary it is for
public urelfare that as ollany melllbers of these clas.ses as
possible small corne ullcler the influence, for a longer or
shorter tilne, of those great forces which make llp ourmoclern
llnivelsity !

N0TH I.

THb =tVHARTON SCHOOW OF FINANCE AND ECON=OWIY.
The \Mhartoll School was foull(led in I88I. Its course ss7as at first
only two years, be^,inlling n7ith the jullior year in college. Its curriculum
sn7as colnpo.sed largely of the ordinary college subjects tau<ght
by ulen alreacly appointed to teach ila the uIliversity. The e:xperilIlellt
naturallT failed, and there was talk of halldillg back the endowment
to Mr. Wharton, on the grotlnd that there seelned to be no special demand
for such illstructioll. It was decide(l, however, to nlake a new
departul-e. Albel t S. Bones was appointed Professor of Mercantile
Law and Practice, in FebNzary, I883, and entrusted ssrith the organization
of the departmellt; RolDert E,his Tllorllsoll sras retained as Professor
of Political Econollly; Edmtllld J. Jallles ssras called as Professor
of PulDlic Finance and Aclnlinistl-atioll; and John Bach McMastelo
as Professor of American History, political, constitutiollal and industrial,
both beginllillg work in DecemlDer, I883. A fleW era was


### ---Economics-1901-1-20.txt---
thus opened for the school, though the two-year curriculum, which
was open to students upon the coulpletion of the first two years in
co]lege, was retailled.
01Vhen Albert S. Bones accepted a position in the State govertllalellt
at Harrisburg, Edlllund J. Jatnes was entrusted xvith the practical admillistration
of the school, and later ap?ointed Director. For admisSiOll
to the cul-ricllluin, noser lellgthelled from two to four years, ssrere
demanded in general the same requisites as for the classical or technical
colleges. Many new cotlrses +rere added, with a result of
strellgthenillg and establis'ning the department lnore firmiy. Instrlletors
rvere appointed in the theory and practice of accounting,
trallsportation, banking, jollrnalisln, and other pl-actical subjects,
besides additional instructors in economics and politics. The fouryear
plan thus adopted by the NVhartoll School ilas lgeell accepted, as
indicated in the text, by most of OU1' institutions whicl-l have undertaken
this xvork. As all evidence of the deilland for this kind of instrtletion,
the fact may lDe stated, that while the \Alhartoll School
course is oIle of a large number of elective courses offered in the IJniversity
of Penllsylvallia, it has a greater attenclance than the average
of the courses. The follonvillg table shows the attelldance fronl r895
to Igor

1 895 _ _ I I 3 I 898 _ _ _ _ _ f 87 I 90I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I 35
I 896 _ _ _ _ 97 I 899 - - - - 94
I Q97 _ _ IOI I900____ ____ I 25
NOTH II.

THb UNIVbRSItY OF WISCONSIN SCHOOt OF COMMbRC.
As indicative of the interest which the new departmellts have
created, the follovv7ing statement made lDy Professor Willianl A. Scott,
Director of the new School of Comlnerce in the University of NVisconSill,
iS of interest:

" Highty-four students have registered in our School of Comnlerce
up to date. Of these, 6I are freshlmen, I7 sophomores, 3 juniors, and
3 specials. Of this total, 65 have come to the Univel-sity for the first
time this year, and I9 have transferred from some other courses in
the University. In order to fincl out exactly what proportion of the
students wotlld have conle to the University had not the School of
Commerce lDeen established, I sent a circular letter to each one aslzing
the three following questions:
I. NVould you have come to this University if the School of Commerce
had not been established ?
2. NVould you have gone to some other university if the School of
Commerce had not been established ?


### ---Economics-1901-1-21.txt---
3. If you vould have entered this University in any case, svhat
course would you have taken if the School of Commerce had 1lot beela
established ?

I received replies from every one of the students, +^Tith results as
follo+^rs:

Twenty-sis reply that they would not have elltered this or any
other university had not the School of Comulerce been established.
They would have gone instead directly into btlsiness. Three are Ullcertain,
but state that they zTould have probably taken a special
course in sozne college or university, selectillg such studies as xvould,
in theil- OpilliOIl, best prelDare thenl for business. Of the remainder,
24 xvould have entel-ed our College of Letters and Science, g the Civic
Historical cotlrse, 8 the General Science course, 5 the Englisil course,
2 the Moclern Classical course. O-f the remainder, 6 +^rould have en
tered the Engineering School, 4 the Law School, and 2 the College of
Agriculture. I interviewed the I2 last melltiolled students, and discovered
that in every case they srould have taken the Engilleerillgy
the Iva+r, or the Agricultural course, not because they wished to make
themselves engineers, lamryers or farmers, but because in the opinion
of themselves or their fathers, these courses furnished a better preparation
for business than the courses in the College of Letters and
Science.

It seetns to me that these statistics indicate very clearly the need for
Schools of Commerce. At any rate, +^re are satisfied that in the astablishment
of the School we have reached a new constituency which has
not been previously attracted by our University courses."
MONOGRAPHS, PAPERS, AND ADDREDSSEDS ON COMMERCIAIv
EDUCATION

13Y EDAIUND J. JASIES.
I. Das Studitlm der StaatsnvissenschafteIl in Amerika. Conrad's
Jahrbuciler for Nationalokonoulie und Statistik N. F.: VII
Band. Jena, I883.

2. Otltline of a Proposed School of Political and Social Science.
Philadelphia Social Science Association, I885.
3. The Study of Politics and Business at the University of PellnsylVallia.
Philadelphia, I 889.
4. Schools of Fillance and Economy, Address before American
Bankers' Association. Saratoga, I890.
5. Economic and Social Aspects of Public Education. American Illstitute
of Instructioll. BostoIl, I89I.
6. The University and the Higiler Education of Business Ment
National Education Association. Toronto, I89I.


### ---Economics-1901-1-22.txt---
7. A Plea for a Commercial High School. Address before the American
Bankers' Association. San Francisco, I892.
8. Philadelphia's Need o-f a Commercial High School. Address before
the Philadelphia Board of Trade. Philadelphia, I892.
9. Education of Business Men in Europe. Report to the American
Bankers' Association, New York, I893. 211d editiOll, Chicago,
I 898.

IO. What Should be the Curriculum of the Comnlercial High School ?
Address before the Educational Cluh of Philadelphia, I894.
I I . The I3usiness Man and Higher Education. Missouri Bankers'
ASSOCiatiOIl, I896.

I2. rhe State UnisTersity and the Higher Training for Business. Address
before the State University of Missouri, I897.
I3. The Modern University. Commencement Address before the
University of California, I 898.
I4. The Public High School and Commercial Education. Report of
the Chicago Educational Commissioll, I898.
I5. The Function of the City University. Cotnmencement Address
before the Unixersity of Cincinllati, I899.
I6. Comnlercial Education. Monographs on Edttcation in the United
States. Department of Education for the United States Commission
to the Paris EXpOSitiOll of I900.
Nos. I, 2, 5, I3, and I5, discuss the subject of commerclal education
only incidentally as a part of the general work of the university
or as that of special departnlents of politics and economics.
 ## Economics-1902-0


### ---Economics-1902-0-01.txt---
The year I776 iS an epocll-lllakint, clate in the history
of liberty. Every American associates I776 with the
lDeclaration of Irlclependellce, svl-liell, however we may
look upon it-and all Inoclerr-l criticisr-n just and unjllst,
to the colltrary, llotwithstallding rallks anlong the
greatest allcl glallclest clocalIlellts of the worlcl's history.
It is there asserted, a.s sometllillZ axiolllatic, as something
lJelonging to the realtn of natural lasr, that lil:erty
is an illaliellable rit,-llt of all lnell. Yotl all recall
the precise worcls: " We llold these trlltlls to be
self-eviclent; that all men are created equal, that they
are endowed by their Creator With certain ullalienal)le
Rit l-lts, that among these are L;fe, LilDerty ancl the pursuit
of ISappiness." It is flortllerlrlore assertecl tl-at the
rery purpose of the itlStitlltiOll vf oOVerNlnellt iS to
secure these riglltEs, ancl that evely gorrernllletlt clerines
its just powers from the consent of the t,overned.
Btlt the year I776 witllessecl the appeara:ace of a book
W}liCll SO acllllirably presetltecl the eigllteenth century
philosophy of industrial llbel-ty, that by colllxnon COI1-
selit of the illtelligenl: it ralll.s among the work-l's
greate.st books. I refel- to Aclatll Slrlitll's " Wealth o
Nations ", wllicll oWcupies a pivotal oSitiOll in Illodern
econotnic thought, earlier works preparing the way for
this lnaster-piece, ancl subsequetlt xvorks in economics
restitlg tIpon the " Wealth of Nations" as a follnclatioll.
So profollnd has been its inrSuence that the centenllial
of its appearallce was cleellleci worthy of a celebration.


### ---Economics-1902-0-02.txt---
Placillg it below the Declaratiotl of Illdepenclellce iIl its
power over lltllllall clestinies, laevel-tlleless, I clare to
place it in the first rank of ?ublication.s which deal
with l-ltlnlall liberts.
The spirit of the age in arllicll he wrote bl-eatlles
thl-olloll Aclam Stnitll's " XVealtll of i%RtiOllS 2. this
spirit is a worlcl-spirit, atocl the a<>e is coslrlopolitan.
This spirit fizlcls its nlost logical, its clearest ancl fllllest
expression in the French <)llilosophr and the Frellch
ptlblic life of the latter part of the eighteenth century.
Liberty, equality allcl fraternit! are tnacle the watchWOl-
Cl.S of the reptlblic.
WAlllen sve exan-line the treatlnent of liberty in the
great llistorical srorks of tIzis abe, we mllst be impl-essed
with the silnplicltwT of tile probleln of liberty, ac then
conceived. Iviberty is tllouaht of as a unitv) ancl not as
a colnplex conception) or buncile of r;gl-lts. AlIoreover,
we fillcl that lilherty is preselltec1 in its nebative aspects.
Restrictions allcl restraints are found 11pOll libertz, ancl
it is tllouo-llt tlaat once we clear the.se away, liberty will
assert itself as a benit,n foree.
As in the lllOttO of the French relDllblic, so in the
DeclaratioIl of Inclepelldellce, aIlcl in Adaz-n Slnitll's
" \;Vealtll of Nations ", liberty is associatecl xvitll equality.
Natural equality is llelcl to be a funclalllelltal fact, and
not by ally nlealls a ,oal to be reacllecl slowly and painfully.
Ada1n Stnitll looles upon the brick-layer anc1 the
statesrnall as equal in nature, llolclillg that the vast differences
between them are clue to the varied effects of
envirolime1lt. I4ad the envirotltnellt been cl1allgecl the
stateslllan woulcl have been the briclc-layer and the
brick-layer the statesInall. This tlaeory of equality runs,
as a recl tllreacl, through the entire social philosophy of
that age, ancl must be bor1-le in millcl by one who woulcl


### ---Economics-1902-0-03.txt---
understand the theoretieal and praetieal eonelusions
reaellecl by that philosophy. The probleln wllieh presentecl
itself to our forefatllers, and to Freneh statesmen,
as well as to English thinkers, was essentially negative.
Restrietions onust be removed. Favoritism onust be
abolished, and the laws tnaking possible restrietions and
favoritislll must be repealed. The restrietions upon
liberty svllieh nvere then llotieecl ssZere restrietions of a
politieal nature. Collseqllently the probleln of liberty
was eoneeived to be essentially a politieal problem, as
well as a negative one.
Closely assoeiated witl-l this cloetrille of equality was
the doetrille of the bellefieellee of self-interest. Inaslnuell
as men were essentially equal, eaell olze eoulcl best
gElarCl his own interests individually, provicled only the
halllperillg fetters of the law sholllc1 maiSe way for a
reign of liberty. Tillle cloes not perlllit llle to follow
out, as I would like, the clevelopment of this negative
view of liberty, wlliell I have presented. Frotll it we
may traee ollt a very elearly onarked line of evolution of
thought, ancl a solIlewhat less elearly markecl line of
evolution of politieal praetiee. Through various
writers we reaeh Herbert Speneer's treatment of liberty
as a negative allci politieal probletn. The areat elleony
of freedoon, he holds, is the state tnanifesting itself in
laws clireeting Iluman aetisTity, allcl in his opinion, leading
illevitably to slavery, unless the flow of legislation
is in some way eheeked. We fincl Herbert Speneer
preaehing his doetrine of liberty in his " Soeial Staties "
in I85I, and asserting in it the right of man to clisregard
tTle state, ancl ila tnore reeent tilnes he expounds his
doetrine in artieles bearing sueh titles as these: "The
Cotning Slavery ", " The Sins of Legislators ", " The
Great Political Superstition."


### ---Economics-1902-0-04.txt---
It is but one step frotn Herbert S?encer to philosphical
allarclly which, in the interests of liberty, woulci
abolisll the state altot, ether. We tll us reach the termination
of one line vf locical evolution of liberty, COllceived
negatively, as solnething xvhich may exist if
political restraints and restrictioIls tIpon actiotl are once
removed. Very early, however, those whose interests
led them to approach social and ecollolllic qllestions
from a diiSerent pOillt of view, as xvell as those who
examined the problem of liberty onore broadly and
deeply, be(ratl to qtlalify the theory of liberty svllicll we
have just exatllined. John Stuart Mill occupies an illterestilag
position in the developlnellt of the philosophy
of liberty, as iil lliln re see radically antagonistic views
struggling with each other for lnastery. HEe was
brought up a firm adherent of the eighteenth century
social philosophy, bllt was ol:)liged to qualify it illcreasillgly,
as he grew older ancl gained larger knowledge as
a rcsult of bl-oadenillg experience and deeper thought.
On the one llatld, iil the interests of liberty he would
prollibit life-long luarriage contracts On tl-le other
hand, he sees ti-le limitatiorls impo.sed upon freedotll of
action in the social and econolnic orcler, and looks forward
to a titne of collective ownership of lancl and
capital, althoual-l he cloes not profess to see l-low this
collective owllersllip is to be lnallaged so as to avoid new
restrictions IllDon liberty.
Allotlle-r stat,e in the development of tTlought is
clearly reacllecl in the W1-itil]S of the Englisll philosopher,
Tllolnas Hill Green,l who breaks away altovetller
from the collception of liberty as something to be
acllieveci by slegative, political action, holdillg- that true
Lt. H. Gleell, " Liberal legislation and free(lottl of contract "
Works, vol. 3, pp. 365-386


### ---Economics-1902-0-05.txt---
llberty means the explessioIl of positixTe pORVelS of the
illdiViClllal, allcl that it Call be reaclled only cls a result
of a long ancl tstrclllous collstrtlctive process. Green tells
zIS in these xrorcls what he lneatls by li4erty orfreeclotn:
" We do not llleall onerelv fleecloll-l from restraint or
comptllsioll. 5Ale clo not lizeaxl lllerel fl-eeclozn to do as
we like irrespectivrely of what it is that we like. We
do not llleall a freec10on that cAn be elljoaTed by one lllan,
or orle set of tnell, at the cost of a loss of freedom to
others. When we speak of freedoul as somethillt,- to be
higllly prizee1, we lnean a positive power or capacity of
doitlt, o1 enjoyillg solnetllillt, wortll doitlg or elljoying,
aold that, too, solnetlaillg tl]at we clo ol elljoy in colnmon
with others. \Ale llleall by it a zower which each than
exelcises through the l-lelp ol secllrity given hioll hy his
fellowtlle2l, allcl -ullicll he in turll 1lellDs to secure for
them. W}lell we lloeasure the progress of a .<ociety by
tl-ze growtll in freecloul, re naeastlre it ly the illcreasillg,
developmetlt allcl exercise o]l the whole of those poJers
of contrib.lting to social good -with wllicll we believe
the zzlember.s of the societ) to be endoxvecl; in sllort,
by the >reattr power on the part of the citizells as a
bocler to lnake tlae lnOSt and best of tllelllfselxres."
Ais anal-clar gives 11s tl-le logical outcollle of one line
of thought concerllint, liberty, so we find another line
of ttzollgllt, regarclillg libert, going far beyond the
necessary iz;-lzlications of Green's pOSitiOIl and terlMinatillg
in the fDppOSite eNtrelne, SOCialiSTll.
As i'&dAnl SlllitlI 'S XlD4lilOSOphy Of liberty is atl expression
of the ei>-llteellth cetltllry, Tholuas Hill Greell's
view xuay l)e lookecl upon as all expression of the
philosopllyr of liberty with nThich tl-le twentieth century
opens. There are szarious reasolls for this change vf
view. One of the most fundamental is, perhaps, found


### ---Economics-1902-0-06.txt---
in the fact tl-lat we have diseovered humall nature
to be a more colllplex tllint tllall it was thought to be
in the la.st quarter of the eighteeilth century. Instead
of a very sitnple psyehology, re have a very colnplex
psycllology ullderlyillg our twentieth celltur thought.
Ineqtlalities among men we now 1r110W are rlatural, or
the natural outcome of the kind of a world in which
we live, illllabiteci by oltr kind of beillgs. Affen are
what they are as a result of heredity, as well as ealvironment.
Afoleover, we have a hereclity of environment
itself, which is felicitously terllaecl social l-leredity.
Tl-le outcolne of this is found in the fact now clearly
perceived by those who think deeply OI1 SttC9l SllbjeCtS,
that in contract men who are, in one way and another
unequals, face each other and that their ineqllality expresses
itself in the contracts wllicll deterInine their
. . .

ecollomlc conc ltlon.
Another cause of the change in view coolcertling the
acllievenlent of liberty, is found in tl-ze growth COlnplexity
of society, especially on its econolnic sicle. 5'len
are brought into society in a real and vital sense by the
relations existing along them, and these relations have
mllltiplied ellorlllouslT cluring the past celatllry. The
economic ties toniting men in society were relatlvely
few ancl simple in I776. Slleir growth, extensively and
intellsively, is a mattet- of fallliliar knowleclge at the
present tilne. It is a mere trllislll to say that ollr rellbeillg
in industrial matters depends on others, as well as
on oulselves. Ollr ecollolnie well-being is all outcome
of satisfactorT relations existing between the individual
and society. Now these relations wllicll billcl Illall to
his fellow-men are to only a lilnited extent of a political
nature. Collsequelltly it follows that restrictions upon
liberty are, for the luost part, outside of and beyond


### ---Economics-1902-0-07.txt---
governlnent. Furtllerlllore, the problerll of liberty is
only to a minol extellt a political prol:)lelll. And as it
is only to a lrlinor extent a politieal probleln, it can
llesler, in atly true sense, lJe secllrecl by a mere repeal of
political laws, nor indeecl bl a mere enactment of
political lal.N7s. Neither retnoval of politico-eeonoulic
restrictiolls upon freedom of trade, nor enactment of
ulliv7ersal sllffrage, can give us rnore than a smal], fractiollal
part of liberty.

Our OaTu, familiar, everyday experience teaches t1S that
reStriCtiOIlS llpOIl our positive liberty of action are mainly
due to the coerciool of economic forees. T1lis coercion
of ecol-lomic forces lnalaifests itself in many ways, but
largely in ancl through contract competitively formed.
This is seen, -first of all, in what may be callecl the problessg
of the tzevessSieSA vn^z. Nineteen men wish to pursue
a certain course of economic aetioll, bllt are coerced
comptitively by the twentietll into a line of collduct
N71aicll they dislil e. Nineteen barbers in the city of Madison,
WiSCOl]Sill, vislaed to close their shops on Sunday;
the twentieth woulcl not agree to close his, and consequently,
all tlge twenty were, and still are, kept open.
Nilaeteen men may desire to work ten hours a day, and
mal be coercecl by the twentieth into xrorlzing fourteen
hours a day. Apparelatly they are all working fourteen
hours a day because they clloose to do so, but the choice
is not a free one, in any true .Sense of the worcl. Even
the tarentietll ollan prefers to work ten llollrs a clay, but
yields to pressure for the sake of a ternporary aclvantage,
and so he is likewise coereed. The freedom -wizieh thus
expresses itself in eontraet is in eertain eases lilSe the
freedotn of a slave, who chooses to work rather than to
suffer under the lash.
The coercion of ecolloznic forces is largely due to the


### ---Economics-1902-0-08.txt---
unequal strength of those who ulake a contract, for back
of contract lies inequalitr in strelabtll of those who form
the contract. Contl-act does not cllalage eisti-lag ilaeqllalities
ancl forces, bllt is siluply the Inediuln through xvllicll
they find exprosciol. \7ilealtll and poverty, plenty and
hulager, 1lakedlless all( warln clotllillg, ignorance and
learlliIlg face each other in contract, anci find expression
in ancT tlarougll cotltract. Accorclint, to the tl-zeorv of
Pufenclorf, one of the great jllrists o-f his day, slavery is,
historically, an utcollle of coll'cract. I clo not tllilll<
myself, that this is a correct vievnr of slaTery) as awlac)le
but it llnqllestionalDly explaills slavel-r ilz lllatly in.stallces.
even in Olll- orn clay colltl-acts llasse hee1-l foroed which
have been elelaouilced -Eronl the belzell a.s virttl?l sla ery.
I have itl onillcl particularly the well kllOWll ca.ses ss llicll,
in the present year, arere brollllt before Juclge WA1. C.
Benllett in Columbia, Sg C. :St apptar.s in tl-le <;tatemellt
of the cclse by the Jllclte that llet,roen e"ltered into
collcracts whereby they surretlelered llearly, if nsDt quite
all, tho.se rights wtlicll we aS.sociate N^litll a Condition
of freedollll. 1 he forln o: tl-le contract includes the followzag:


" I agree at all times to be subject sCQ the orders ancl
colllmands of said or his aCeIlts, perforlrl all
work reqllil-ed or me. - or ili.S abelltS Small have
the l-ight to use such orce as iie or his agellts may deenl
1lecessary to coInpel me to remaill on iliS farill allbl tV perforlll
good and satisfactory services. He small have the
right to lock lne up for safekeepint,, work me vlnder the
rules and regulations of his farm, and if I should leave his
fartn or run away he shall have the ribht to ofTer and
pay a reward of not exceeding ,$2 5 for llly capttlre and
return, together with the expenses of saule, which
amount so advallced, together with an other illdebtedness


### ---Economics-1902-0-09.txt---
I may owe at the expiration of above
time, I a,t,ree to work out under all rules and regulatiotls
of this contract at salne wages a.s above, commencinb
al-lcl elaclillg

The saicl small have the right to transfer his
interest in this contract to any otiler party, and I agree
to continue vork for said assir,nee san-le as the original
party of the first part."
Judge Bennett, in adclressilzg his,rallcl jllry, declared
that this nominally free contract " reclllcecl the laborer
to a position svorse than slaveryO" In cllart,in^, the
gralld jury he saicl: " No :Eree lllan itl this col-llllonwealth
nor ally other free country can lDe perIllitted,
even if l-le desires to do so, to bartez- awav his liberty and
make hil:nself a chattel; and that is xvl-lat this contract
attempts to do." The Jlldt,e spoke of it as lllo,St itiful
of all that the poor ne,roes rl-lo llacl fol-lned such a contract
should profess " to le sat:isSecl and colltellted ".
'rlle sale of cllildren ly their parents in tilnes of clistress
is a freqtlent phellomenoll in onany Oriental countries;
and prostitution aslel slavery can in those countries
even to-day often be traced back to contracts of one sort
ancl another.

We have in these illstances a very extrelue folln of
the inequality expressecl itl and tllrOIIgh contract,
nominally ree. Wleat is seen in these cases in extrelne
form can be seen in lesser degree on every llalld, even
in the most civilized nation. \Ale see from all this that
contract gives expression to inequalities, and allows
existilzg social forces to flow on, involving itl sorlle cases,
a perpetuation and deepening of de,radation.
Furthermore, we have lyillg back of free ccontract the
great institutions of society, property, atld the inheritance
of property, and vested interest.s. In short, all that


### ---Economics-1902-0-10.txt---
passes down from generation to generatioll lies back of
contract and expresses itself in and tlllouglt contract.
As a result of the nature of lzaan, of the conclitions of
existence in a srorlcl like ours, ancl of the great llistol-ical
institutions wllicll have come down to llS, men exist in
classes. These classes, in tnoclern times, rest upon all
economic foundation. Even the political classes of
earlier clays hacl, in the beginning, an economic basis,
but the oleler political classes are, in our day a cotnparatively
sulall lllatter. The Century Dictionary defilles
class as follows: " An order of or rank of persons;
a nlllolber of persolls llavirg certain characteristics in
comlnoll, as equality in rank, intellectual influence, education,
pl-operty, occupation, habits of life.'9
The existence of classes, wllicll is absolutely necessarr,
reStillg upon a foulldation beyond the power of
lllan to control, gives colllplexity to our probletrl of
liberty. A lllodern jllrist has used these words, which
have a pro-found significance in ollr discllssioll of the
problem of liberty: " There is no greater illequality tha
the equal treatment of unequals."
The problem of liberty inclucles the problem of suitable
colltrol over the relations which exist along nlen; for
these relations determine the conditions of our social existence.
These relations may be considered indiviclually
and socially, and the social action may be either of private
or public character. The action of a tracles union in its
endeavor to secure favorable relations, is private social
action; a statute, determining the length of the srorki ng
day, is public social action; ancl lDotll alike aim, sllccessfully
or unsuccessfully as the case may be, to promote
liberty. All action whicl-l endeavors to l-emove ignorallce
and superstition and to strengthen the individual,
mentally, morally and physically, is action which endeavors


### ---Economics-1902-0-11.txt---
to plOlllOte libert)r. Necessarily, social action
which determil-les or ret,ulates in an) way the relations
of tnen among themselves, ttlUSt restrict freecloll-l of
movement at some point, but where it is wise it increases
it more than correspondingly at other pOilltS. If
we have restrictioll upon liberty called 2a) xve have in
the ca.se of wise, social action all inclelllent of liberty
wlliclt is certainly 2 plEls solnetlling- else. The ernployer
tnay not llire the services of little clailelren, and
his liberty to clo so is restrictecl, but the liberty of tl-le
chilclren is increased. They are freed from toil, and when
provisioll is lnacle for their srise e(lucation and llp-brillgillg,
their powers are increased, alad they have many
fold the lilJerty to elllploy tllellaselves in the service of
their fellows fol- theil- own benefit.
We thus have a vast bocly of legislation in ancl
throtlgh wllicll society seeks liberty. This legislation
uoclifies ancl qualifies llominally free contract, because
nolninally free contract lnay lllean servitucle of various
kinds anci various degrees. The aim is the increase of
liberty in the positive sense.
Eclucation is one of the liloes along which moclern
societr works to secure liberty. It cultivates ancl enlightens
the Inilld, free.s it from enslavilag superstition;
aIld, where it is industrial, it cultivates economic
powers allcl aicls us in acljustilag ourselves in the relations
of cozlplex ecolloulic society.
Mocleroll legislation eveol reluctantly and agaillst tlae
force of prejudice, recognizes increasillglv the existence
of classes, and the inequalities of powers amotlgllunlan
beings. We have one breat class in tl-le comtnunity,
chilclren, for rhol-n re have special laws. AVomell are
another great class, svith a nature different frotn that of
nen, and with secial neecls of their own. We have


### ---Economics-1902-0-12.txt---
tl1e farIners; xve have tile class of zllell el1gabecl i
trall.spol-tatioll; the metl rho work for wages; all xvitl
their special 1leeds and pectIliarities) fi1ldillg expl-essio
in laws applicahle to the clas.s to ^71licll tTley lDelotlg
To use expression o-f Judt e Cooley in his Col1stitt
tional Lilnitations, we have llere simply the recogl1ition
of " distillctions that exist in the nature of things ".
It sroulcl be interestilag, if tirne perulitted, to SilOW
how many cliSerel1t lSinds of legal inequality there may
be where we have llotllillal legal equality. I can refer
here ol-lly lhriefly to sDne or two pOil1ts. We have
illeqllality iIa power to secure l-leecled laws. Col-lsequently
sve l1ave scocieties a-ld social action i<1 order to
secure needed legislation for tl1ose who by thetllselves
are not strong etaougll to gain the ends sought. rll
stl-eet car elzaployees of ZBaltiluol-e, sonwe 5 ears ago,
desirecl to laave tl-1eir lloul s of labor reclucecI froln vsevell
teell llOlll-S atld tw-ellty miIlutes a dar to twelve hours,
and by social actiotl, in which many of the llle.l of
Baltiollore) zzost etlailletat ila cl1llrcll azacI state alad io
prislate fielcRs, participated, a tvelve hour day was
secllrecl.

There is itleqtlality 011 accol.lnt of the l taosriedge of
lasr o11 tlae pals vf the srario.ls classes, at-icl in the pover
to avail ozze's self vf tlae law. Con.sequetltly, nN-e 1lave
societies forllled to reIlledy this evil, alud to promote that
libet-ty\Vhicll collles frot<z balazreed pomlers. We have
OU1- btlrealls of jtlstice, and ollr legal aici societies.
Ancl another thing. \Ale have an immense modern
clevelopment in tl1is country of the police power of the
state, as this power is lnost infelicitously teruled. We
mean, as everyone versed in the elements of law knows,
the general welfare power of the state, restricting and
limiting contract in the interests of freedom. This dew


### ---Economics-1902-0-13.txt---
velopmellt of the police power, slow as it is, shows the
adaptability of law to cllangitlg industlial anc:l ecol10mic
co:laclitions. It has been said, and truly, that developInellt
of law lag.s bel-lind the evolution of industrial
society-, so that the 1asr repl-esents a corresponclence to a
precerlillg stage or period in il-ldustrial developlnezit. It
has been clifficult fol- our courts to adjust the-zlselves to
the restrictions UpOIl nomilzally free contract, clemancled
by the interests of a larger and truer freecloln. Collse
quently, in luall cases decisioles hasTe been renclered
w1oich lnUSt be colldelnned by econolnic pllilosoplly.
Fortunately, llowever, our courts are fillding the laeeded
elelnez] t of flexibility ita our constitutional systeln in the
police power, and are recognizing the fact that a new
ecol10nzic sxorld detnancls new interpretations. Under
ATTlericall conditions, Witil upright judges of superior
intelligeInce, cleoted to freedolm as the ullclerstalld it,
this propositioll nzay be safely mailltained, as ilas been
well stated by ozze of our professors of lanr: " It has ever
been trtle that in matters of great social and political
illiport, our legal decisions and tlleories have conformed
themselves to the currellt political and social thought,
and 1lot our social and political thought to our legal
theories." I

Amollt,- our various state courts I think the trutlls
collcernillg freedom, svllich I have so imperfectly brought
before you, have been lnost clearly seell and most ex
plicitly stated lDy the Suprerlle Court of Massachtlsetts.
Sonae years ago, legislation restrictillg the right of
wonlen to work in a factory lnore than ten hourvs a day
allcl sixty l'Olll-S a week was upheld. SigniEcallt extracts
frolIl the decisioll of the court in this case, are
1 Professor A. A. Bruce, lJniversity of wisconSill in the Recol-d
Herald, Chicago, July 7, I9OI .


### ---Economics-1902-0-14.txt---
the followillg: " It does not forbid any person, firtn O:L
corporation from elnploying as many persons or as much
labor as such person, firlll or corporation may desire .y
nor cloes it folbicl any persoll to work as many hours a
day or week as he chooses, it tnerely provides tl-lat \1
any emplo) tnent rllicll the let,islature has eviclently
deemed to soule extellt dangerotls to llealtll, no person
shall be ellgagecl in labor tnore tllall tell hours a day
and sixty hours a weel. T1lere can be no doubt that
such legislation may be mailltainecl, either as a health
or police reglllatioll, if it were necessary to resort to
either of those sources for porer. This principle has
been so Irequently recognizecl in this commollwealth
that referellce to the decisions is unnecessary.
" It is also saicl that the law violates the right of Bilary
Shirley to labor in accordance with her osvn judg-ment
as to the llunlber of hours she may work. The obvious
and conclusisTe reply to tl-lis is, that the law does not
limit ller rig,-llt to labor as many hours per day or per
^reek as she lnay clesire. It lllerely prollibits her being
employed colatilauollsly in the same service more tllall a
certain 1lumber of hour,s per clay or week." 1
The present learllecl chief justice of that state, :\1r.
Jllstice Holmes, has also expressecl lainlself in such a
manner concerllillg the right of the state to regulate
free contract ila the interests of a larger -freed()m, as to
sl-low a clear insigllt into the llnderlying principles itlvolvecl.
"

It ivs natural to expeet ellligi}telled decisions on eco-
110111iC questions itl A/Iassaclallsetts, and that for several
' II1 Commonwealth v. Hamilton Manufacturing Company, I20
Mass. 385.

2I am pleased to quote from a letter received from Mr. Justice
Holmes, vvith his permission, the follovving: " In my opinion, econoeasons.


### ---Economics-1902-0-15.txt---
One is the progressive eharaeter of the state,
^.1. to general ellliglltenment; another is the altrllistie
.pxrit of the age, wliiell finds suell oSratifyillg expressio
the Old Bay state, and a third is the faet of its lligl
dustrial development, as a result of wllicll it has llacl
3 r deal for a longer period than other states ritll those
questions growilag out of an intelasive industrial life.
Reeently, howeer, to states, viz., Tenlaessee ala(t West
Virginia, itldustriallwr far less developed, have taken a
leadillg po.sition in the regulatioll of eontraet in the
itlterests of libertz trtlly eoneeived. I refer to the
deeisions of the eourts of these states, sustaining statutes
prohibiting the lnaintellallee of trllek sllops, and also
providitlg for weigllillg of eoal. the eourts elearly
reeognize inequalities in baraainillg porer, 157ilag baek
of eontraet, and they also take the pOSitiOzz,-ancR it is undoubtedly
a true one,-that wise legislatiotl of this sort is
ealeulated to prevent industrial strife, disorder and
bloodshed, and to maintain the publie peaee.l
The au,ust tribunal whieh holds its sessioll in this
eity, the Suprellle Court of the United States, has also,
OI1 broad grounds of publie policy, 1lpllelcl the statute of
the state of Utall, wllieh limits the x^Torking day or
mitlers in that state to eight hours.2 TIle Supreme
Court dicl not go into the wisdotll of this partietllar
statute, and I have no desire to clo so ola this oceasiool.
It is silnply the broad prineiple of regulation of eeollomie
relations in the interests of freeclolll rhicll is in
question. We see the most enlightelled eourts thus enmists
and sociologists are the people to sTholll sve otlght to turIl more
thala ve do for illstruction irl the groullds and foutldatioIls of all
ratiollal decisions."
1 Harrison v. Knoxville Iron Co., 53 S. RV. Rep. 955 (Telln. ). Peel
Splint Coal Co. v. State, I5 S. E. Rep. ( 5vV. Va. ) IOOO.
2Holden v. Hardy, I69, U. S. 397.


### ---Economics-1902-0-16.txt---
deavoring to develop the iclea of publie poliey in SUCl1 a
way as to Dring eontraet into eollfornaity with illdUStrRa$.
conclltlons.

It is in the poliee power that we fil-zd the peeulia13r
flexible eletllelat in (DU1 lega.l sszstexn, aold svith RZritte-i
eonstitlltions sllcll as we have it is l-lOt easy to see where
otllernvise it is to be sollgllt. T1le lDossibilities of development
along the line of the poliee power eannot be
lilllited. Coaseqelelltly, tl-lere is the possibilitn7 of an
evollltioll of ollr law s^71iell shall aclapt it to otlr present
allcl fls tllre inclustrial life, al-lcl tll 1l.s seeure i lldtlstrial
liberty. Let t1S take, for exansple, the doetrine that
free corltraet presupposes " tl-le will as volltntarily lna-lifested.
' It is quite evidezat tl-lat this must take froln
cel taioa agreelllents the character of a valici colltl a.et.
All agreelllellt made by presstlre due to tllreats to a
luan's 1lol1se cannot be a bioldiilg contract. Silllilarly
if I see a lllilliollaire, who is clronvnillg, anc] offer to save
liS life, ool collclition that he tl1rn over to llle all his
property, olo court srollld .sllstaitl this agreetllellt as a
billeling contract.
But is it not po.ssible in some ca.ses to take into acCOllnt
the pressure of econolnic needs, for exaulple,
the llllllger of wife and cllildrell ? Ullquestiollably9
agreements rith wage-earners have been extortecl by
the severest pressure of llun-el-. Agreemeolts for
usuric?us rates of interest have also beetl extortecl lll-leler
the pressure of ecoIlolnic 1leecl. Courts have frequently
founcl a way to cleclare sllcll agreetneolts of no binding
force. I cannot elllarge llpOll this tllotlgllt, and itldeedt
have no clesire to do lnore tllall luerely to suggest an
isuportant litle of evolution in the interests of liberty.
Let us take again the principle that the ribllt to contract
lnust not olullify itself, ancl it .seeons that from the


### ---Economics-1902-0-17.txt---
standpoint of libertyw there CAll be no doubt wllatever
about this principle. Yet it is easy for cc)lltl-act to abl-ogate
the right of cot,ltract. \Allle1lever a Inal1 colatracts
hilMSelf into t-1 COnditiOIl of virtual slavery, tlwis is the
case. I have already cited the xvell-k1lorlln cases brought
before J udge Bennett of Soutll Carolina. Cases have
arisen in Germany, under *Nrlnat is called tile "coznpetitive
clause " of labor contracts. It seellls that there it is
quite ctlstcxmary to insist llpOtl a contract Witil an employee,
learni1ag a travle or occUpAtion, tilAt 1lt Small not'
after he hAs aCqUil-ed his lirilOR\7ledoe Of the 5LlSineSS,
eIlter into competition with his employer. Sometiines
there is a limitation UpO11 the period or area vitllin
wllicll 1lo competition must be attemptecl, 1laakitlg the
clause a fairly reasonable c)ne. Sometimes, however, a
lad utterly incompetent to contzeInplate the remote COt]-
sequences of lliD act, and not liaxtillC five dollars tc) his
name, will agree uncler a pellalty of perllaps several
thousand dollars not to enter into cornpetition R7ith his
employer duritlg his Xrllole life, or itl the e1lsil-e German
empire, and sometimes it is said, not allyR;here in the
svorlcl. VV]len contracts are carefully sc1-utinized rith
respect to their impairment, directly o1- indirectly, of the
ritllt to zanake future contracts, it xvill be foulad that
many regulations are 1zecessary in the itaterests of liberty.
Contracting-out as it is 110u7 tecllNically callerl, OC1S
an interestitlg illust1 ation of the ahsolute necessity of
limitations upon contt-act in the interests of pub]ic policy.
It rN;in readily be conceded that prisrate coiltract Inust
not stand above public policy, and y et throug-h colltractiilg-
out of oblibations public policy 1nay frequ ently, atld
will freqelently be subverted. Let us suppose it is determined
to be public lDolicy, as it has been determined in
Germany and in England, that accidents to employees,
unle.Ss brought abolIt t?y sZilful act of the eInpl(zyee, silall
be regarded as a part of tllz- expellses of mantlfacturillg


### ---Economics-1902-0-18.txt---
plants cand agencies of transportation, to be paid for as
any other costs of cloi1ag btlsiness, out of the proceeds of
the business. Unless it is renderecl impossible for an
emplov-ee to contract-otlt ofthe obligation this wise provision
in the iaterests of a large industrial liberty xvill be
nullified by private contracts. ConseqtlentlJ,Y, svre find in
the most advancecl i1ldu.strial cotlntries the doctrine
established by the stal-ute, or coming to prevail in one
rivay and another? that colltractill>out of oblit,-ationsy
established in the interests of public policy, cannot be
tolerated.

Another line of development in the iIlterests of industrial
liberty must consist in opening up and increasing
oppoz-tunities for the acquisition of a livelihood by the
mass of men, in order that back of contracts there may
lie a nearer approximation to equalitlyir of strent,-th on
the part of the tsvo contractillg parties. It is certain
that tlltre \\7ill be a vast development along this iine
during the twentietla century, and tllrou5-ll this development
we shall fincl liberty expressillg itself increasingly
through contl-act.

It is manifest, I think, that philosphical anarclay
fu1^nislller us with 1ao idecll. The absellce of all social
regulations means t]le tIllrestl-icted iy1-alllly of the stronS.
Plato clea1-ly saat this R;llen he asserted that " the mo.st
aggravatecl fortus of tyratlny and slavery arise otlt of
the most extreme form of liberty''.l
Mazzilli also saxrv7 this clearly enoubll, wrllen he said of
liberty: " If you entllz one it alolae as meaIls and end, it
\\7ill lead society first to anarchy, aftersZard to the despotism
sz7hicll you fear.2

XVe have not said all, lloxvever, that there is to be said
concernitlg the ideal of anal-chy sstllen sx7e have pointed
1 Republic, viii, 564, Jowett's translatioll, p. 272.
2 Mazzilli, " Rigllts and wrongs ", Publications of the Christian
Social Ullioll, pp. 9-IO.


### ---Economics-1902-0-19.txt---
out that it can only meatl tyranny a1ld despotism.
Liberty cantlot be an absolute ideal, because avlthoritr
iS needed in society, in order to secure the llarmonious
coopet-atiotl of its xzarious elements a1ld ritllout social
authority sve could have no productiotl of urealth, and
we should be xvithout the material basis of that large and
positive liberty oThicll enables us to employ our faculties
in the commo1l service. This social authority rests, for
the most part, UpOl] the great illStitLltiOllS of societyp
1-operty, vested interests, cont1-act and persollal conditiotls.
To only a limited exte-nt is there a direct
political basi.s for the autllolity wllel eby one inan ht-illt,xs
into ha1-mollious cooperation other men, in the rorlK of
procluction. The basis of social authority is, for the
most part ilzstitLltional.
On the other hand, socialism furnishes us \X7itl] 110
sufEciellt ideal of industrial libertv. Goint, to the
oppc)site extrelne from azaarchy, it would find a political
basis for that social authority tllrough rvllich tile itldUStria]
coopet-ation of tnell is effected. It svould limit the
range of free choice, and 1-estrict liberty, altllough to a
less debl-ee thatl a1larchy. The t1-ue idc-al lier midsvay
betveen clilarclly and socialisIn, aIld may be termecl the
principle of social solidarit. Accordint, to this
principle the >,reat institutions of society must be conserved,
btlt developed in tl-we interests of liberty positively
conceixTed. There must be a ca1-efully elabo1-ated, and
nFisely e.xecuted rebulatio1l of ecoIlomic relations.
XVe are indulgin>, in no Utopiall fancies but are sirnply
describing the forces which al-e evervlllele ma1lifestillg
themselves in tlze most ellliolltelleCi llatiOllS, and al C
resulting in atl evide1lt illcrease of the sphere of industt-
ial liberty for the masses of men. It is absurd to say
that re must not pass any lat in the interests of a single
class of men, inasmuch as men exist in classes, and industrial


### ---Economics-1902-0-20.txt---
lars to be effective must deal vith them as they
e>cist in classes. And, moreover, no class exists for
itself. As society becomes real and vitcal, and mecans
more and more to tIS all, it becomes app)at-ent that no one
class exists for itself, an cl that no one class can exist
apart from all other clclsse<;. YVhile there is sucl] a thing
as vicious legislation in behalf of a fesT favored individuals,
hatever promotes tl-le interests of any one of the great
and ntlmerous classes in society, either itl rncltters physical,
mental, moral or spiritual, advance, the interests of
evel-y othel class. '; RiVe are members Otle of a1lotller," and
" tl-le eye cannot say UlltO the hand, I have no need of
thee: IlOi- again the head to the feet, I laave no neecl of
you aIld wrlletller one metuber sufi-ers, all the
membel-s suffer with it: or one n-lember be hollored all
tIae In embers rej oice xvitll it " . Tll e apoqtle- Paul gives in
in these srlords an expreCsioil to ca deep principle of modern
illdllstricll society, the princilDle of social solidarity.
I llcave sketched tll us hastily ca theory of illdustria
liberty. What I have said, I wotlld have looked LIpO]l
as thougllts on industrial liberty, mol-e or less closely
eo1lnectecl. I have not even attempted an exllaustive
treatmetlt, for hich m+ time is coo lirnitecl, even hcld 1[:,
as I have not, the wisdom for a complete preszntatiotl.
I trust, llowe.vcJr, that what I hclve preSented is in
harmony sVitTl indtlstricll evolution a11(J trtltn. It is
sometllillg, at atly 1-ate, if I have at least made it clea.r
that indtlstl-ial liberty is a conception laaving a relative
and not an absolute value; that it is to be conceived in
a poxitive latl-ler than in a negative sense; that it is olOt
something svllich can be decreed off-lland, by any lebis
lative body, but ratller that it is a social product, to be
achieved by individuals worki1lg 50cially together, and
that it comes, not all at once, but slovly as the result of
a long continued atld arduous process. It is IlOt the beginning
of social evolution, but ratller one of the goals


### ---Economics-1902-0-21.txt---
o social evollltioll, aI-ld one sT1lich 1nust be brought iIltO
harmolly with other goals, such as eqtlality, also relativelT
conceived, and fraternity, the only one of the
three goals, liberty, equality and fraternity, which can,
in any way, be conceived absolutely. XVe have, then,
aIa-long others, three goals of industrial evolution liberty,
equality and fraternity but the greatest of these is
fratel-zl lty.
 ## Economics-1903-0


### ---Economics-1903-0-01.txt---
Economic science is an outgrowtll of economic conditions.
It is a product of social unrest. From the earliest
discussions of classical antiquity. from the first faint
glimmer of trtlth in uledixval speculatiola, froln the elaboration
of complete systems of thought in the eighteenth
century, down to the recellt renaissance of scientific enquiry
in the western hetnisphere, each step forward in
economic analysis has been the result of azz attempt to
ullravel the tangled skein of acttlal conclitions, and of an
effort to solve the difficultie.s of the existing industrial
society. Collsciously or uncollsciously the teleological
element has presided at the birth atld has accompaniecl
the Crowth of all social speculation. " What ought to
be " has ever been the spiritual fatller of " what is."
It is not inteIlded, of course, to deny the existeIlce of
the indepelldent search -for truth for its own sake. On
the contrary, in economics, as in every other scientific
discipline, the highest flights of the intellect have been
in the tenuous and serene attnosphere of pure reason, far
above the tllrbid waves and willdy surface of every day
discussion. It would in belloove the president of an association
like this to say aught in disparagement of the
fearless and unselfish quest for truth for its own sake.
Atnids0Athis ollward sweep of material pr3gress and this
tidal wave of mere brutal bigness which threatens to engulf
us all, nothing is more needed than to cling to the


### ---Economics-1903-0-02.txt---
stake of principle and to hold fast to the sheet anchor of
unprejudiced and undauntecl conclusion. The so-called
theorist has a heavy and often 1lndeserved load to bear.
The term is redolellt of condescension; it szzacks of contempt.
And yet, if the theory is what the word implies,
if it is a real exposition, a true statenzent of the necessary
relations between facts, then no tnatter by what
method it has been reached, no matter how unlikely it
may seem or how unwelcome it may be, it rests 1lpon a
becl of adalnaIlt and will endure forever. To seek such
an explanation, to attain such a result needs not only
the most unremitting ardor, but often the most intrepid
resolution.

The point, however, that it is desired to emphasize
here is that the facts of which an explanation is sought
must be chosen with discrimillation. If the facts themselves
are really insignificant, the theory, no rnatter how
true, cannot fail to be trivial. The minor writers on
economics have, utlfortunately, far too often dissipated
their energies on such trivialities, and have, as a coIlsequence,
sunk to the depths of scholasticisln and mere
logomachy. If economics is to be of ally real service, it
must deal with the important phenomena of economic
life. The great thinkers in our domain, however elevated
their view, however recondite their processes of
thought, have always stood on the firm foundation of
basic social relations. To whatever extent, for instance,
we may be tempted to disagree with the methods or the
conclusions of Ricardo, there is no doubt that the problems
which engaged his attention were entirely worthy
of so acute and so profound a mind. However abstract
the mode of treatment, however unfinished or fragmentary
the results, however remote the argllment from the
habitual and narrow considerations of the market place,


### ---Economics-1903-0-03.txt---
the topics in which the great economists of the past delighted
were of a vital and engrossing characterj and
constituted the real, though often hidden, core of the
controversies of the day.
If, then, economic science finds its justification in the
signiEcance of economic facts, if it owes its origin and
its fruitful development to the storm and stress of actual
life and to the inharmonious play of social forces, it
may-be worth while to consider somewhat more closely
the relations between economic thought and social
progress.

In the first place we must emphasize anew the essential
relativity of all economic thought and a11 political
doctrine. The philosopher indeed loves to elaborate
the eternal principles of order and harmony, and seeks
to give all mundane things their fixed place in the
cosmic scheme. With this the economist has no quarrel.
His work is the less ambitious one of seeking to put
various phases of the social activity of maol in their due
perspective, to estimate the real import of the economic
motive in its actual working out amid the myriad manifestations
of the social mind. In the narrower controversies
as to the nature of economic law, the battle between
absolutism and relativity has been virtually won.
Most thinkers are now willing to concede that however
accurate may be the conception of inviolable law and
however legitimate may be the inclusion of econoznic
principle in this category, the law holds good only so
far as the conditions remain constant. With the perpetual
change in at least some of the relations of social
life, the economic law is often applicable only to the
particular stage of industrial development, and becomes
a provisional and relative, rather than an absolute, explanation.
But while the principle of relativity is now


### ---Economics-1903-0-04.txt---
widely recognized, many implications of the older theory
still survive, and continue to exert a baneful and constricting
influence.

Take, for instance, the opinion either explicitly or
implicitly shared by many of our thoughtful fellow
citizens that this country has in some way a distilletive
mission to perform, and that we are lnarked ofT from
the rest of the world by certain inherent principles,
relative itldeed, in the sense of being peculiar to
America, but eternal and immutable in their relation to
ourselves. Now I certainly do not desire to depreciate
the advantages of patriotism, or to impeach the Ullquestiolled.
influence of nationality. Nations, like individuals,
differ from each other in countless respects!
and each has doubtless sot-ne peculiarity of endowment
which is lacking in the other. Rivalry between nations,
like competition between individuals, is an essential
factor of all social progress. The friction of coontnercial
and intellectual intercourse, notwithstandillt, the
sanguinary struggles by which it has often been attended,
has proved to be the TtlOSt potent influence izz
generating and spreading the light of civilization. To
disparage the facts and the force of natioIlality were
futile indeed. And as with nationality, so with patriotism.
Nations, like individuals, must respect themselves
if they desire to be respected b3wr others; and if they seek
to accomplish atlything enduring, they tnust have an
ardent faith in their own strength and their own
powers of progress. To minitnize the value of patriotistn
ancl its abiding beneficence would be shortsighted
in the extreme.

But how often are the claims of nationality pushed to
an extravagant and unwarrantable length ! We have
indeed learned to put in their proper setting the contentions


### ---Economics-1903-0-05.txt---
of the " chosen peoples "; and we regard the attitude
of the ancient Jews and of the classic Greeks
toward gentile and barbarian respectively as the perfectly
explicable, but none the less culpable, result of an
overweening pride and vainglory, buttressed in the one
case by the all-pervading power of religion, and in the
other by the fanciful supports of ancestry. We can with
diHiculty repress a smile of amusement when confrollted
to-day by the rival demands of those mighty lnonarchs
who still profess to rule br " the grace of God," and who
are unwilling to submit their differences to the arbitrament
of anything less tllall the "nalaifest destiny" of
their own flesh and blood. We are even ready at the
present tilne in the matter of international tllorality to
collcede that while there is a beam in the eyes of our
neigllbors, there Inay possibly be at all evellts a tllote in
our own.

When, however, we come to a consideration of economic
phenotnena and their influence on our social and
political fact and theory, we do not recognize that we
have been largely living in a fool's paradise. We think
with complacency that there is something illllerent in
our democracy; we look back upon the achievemellts of
our coloniaI struggles as ttle obvious consequence of the
Puritall character; we congratulate ourselves upon our
love of liberty, our inventive ingenuity, our utlexalupled
prosperity. What we do not see is the essential relativity
of all these phenotnena, the dependellce of thetn
all on the shifting conditions of time and place.
New England indeed developed its democracy and its
town meeting. But the town uleeting had its prototype
in the woods of Germany, on the steppes of Asia, and in
fact in all pritnitive assemblages; while the democracy
was the result, not of the Puritan alacestry, but of the


### ---Economics-1903-0-06.txt---
economic conditions. The Puritans had nothing to do
with the beginnings of democracy in the mediseval
communes, or with its development amid the Alps of
Switzerland or the dunes of Holland; and the same
Puritans were unable to put on a firnl foundation at
home the democracy which they easily established ila
the new world. So it is with the love of liberty and
indiviclualism. Liberty is alway s the collcotnitant of
economic equality, or at all events of the equality of
economic opportunity. When this equality was almost
from the outset excluded, as in the South throut,h the
pressure of an economic environment based on all
abundance of free soil, well suited to an exterlsive and
quasi-tropical tillage, the result was a disappearance ot
liberty for all but the governing class. It took but a
few generations for the sturdy and liberty-loving patriots
of England and Scotland to become sincere and devoted
believers in the tlecessity and the beneficence of slavery.
The so-called Anglo-Saxon love of liberty went the
way of the old Roman boast of freedom when the world
conquests, with their supply of fresh land, made slavery
an economically profitable system. What a gllastly
mockery that the proud assertion in our Declaration of
Independence as to all tnen being born equal and with
the natural right to liberty should be signed by so large
a proportion of slaveholders !
And what shall we say of the boasted Anglo-Saxon individualism
? How does it happen that the Englishman,
leaving his moist and fertile home for the arid and
barren wastes of the antipodes, becomes, if not a socialist,
at all events the next remove to one ? Why is it
that in Australia we find the governtnent railroads, and
the government insurance, and the government steamship,
and the government frozen meat industry, and the


### ---Economics-1903-0-07.txt---
dozen other examples of government activity which
would be greeted with dismay in the mother country?
Is it not clear that the individualist theory in America
is the product of definite economic conditions in the
nineteellth century ? What careful interpreter of American
history does not know that the arduolls struggles
with a rebellious soil and an inhospi table climate
caused the American of a century ago to turn to governtnent
whenever he thought he might secure help ?
State roads, state canals, state railroads, state boutlties,
state enterprises of all kinds suited to the needs of the
settlers were the order of the day. Bllt when the Inountains
llad been crossed and the fertile valleys of the Middle
West llad been reached, there came a wondrous
ClRange. CO11SCiOUS of their new opportunities, the citiZenS
110W clesired only to be left alone in their quest for
prosperity. Private initiative replaced government assistance,
and the age of corporations was ushered in.
Insellsibly the theory of governlnelltal fullctions chanbed,
and the doctrine of lasssez fazre carried all before it.
Never before and in no other country did the theory of
individualism take such hold of an entire people, because
never before had the economic conditions bee
quite so favorable.

And at the satne time individualistn was reinforced by
democracy. CDolonial New England was indeed a democracy;
but toward the end, OWilig to a changing econoznic
environment, we notice the traces of an aristocratic
developulent, cultnillating here and there in the
dependence of sufirage itself on property qualificatioIls.
But now the broad plains and fruitful valleys of the Middle
West, amid which slavery was economically unprofitable,
and therefore politically impossible, prodllced an
environment so favorable to democracy that its inlquence


### ---Economics-1903-0-08.txt---
soon spread throughout the entire North. It was this
combination of democracy and individualism which
slowly becalne strong enough in its economic basis to
throw down the gauntlet to the opposite economic system
of the South, and finally to emerge victoriously
-from the contest.

With the unification of the system and the supervening
change of economic conditions, the content of otlr
democracy is changing and the theory of extrelne illdi-
* e *

VldUallSm 1S passlng away.
Do you not see, then, that there is nothing inherent in
the fundamental characteristics of our Puritan past ?
Do you not recognize the fact that the history of colonial
New England is but an episode in the drama of
hulnanity, a mere illterlude in the play of society ?
Its strength and weakness alike are the results of a contact
between a fairly civilized metltal attitude and a
primitive economic environlnent. In such a contact the
envirot]tnent in the long run becomes the potent factor.
American history, therefore, has been the history of
national infancy. To predict a future which shall be a
necessary development from our early past would be as
childish as to explain the conditions of Roman imperialisln
from the facts of the pre-republican age. While
the stubborn racial characteristics must indeed not be
overlooked, the Atnerican of the future will bear but
little reselnblallce to the American of the past. To
forecast the coming social transformation in our country
without bearing in lnind the fundamental change in the
econotnic conditions were puerile indeed. Relativity,
not absolutism; change, not permanence, is the watchword
of all social, political, and ethical progress.
An economic analysis based on changing conditions
is therefore of the utmost possible service. And if conducted


### ---Economics-1903-0-09.txt---
skillfully it would, I feel convinced, bid us be of
good cheer and help us face the future with hope and
confidence. The fundamental problem connected with
social development is after all this: Whither are we
tending? What lessons have an econoznic interpretation
of the past and of the present to teach us in our
guidance for the future ? M;hat are the forces that are
making for progress or retrogression ?
There is no blinking the fact that many give a pessimistic
answer to these queries. They call attelltion to
the increase of luxury and of materialism. They look
with suspicion UpOIl what they term the growing plutocracy
and the new feudalisul. They point to the warning
example of the oriental rllonarchies of classic Greece
and Rome, and tell us that in our case, too, the period of
unquestioned prosperity which is now upon us will inevitably
be followed by one of decay and final dissolution.
What has been, will be. There is llothing new
in human affairs.

I venture to affirm, however, that a more discriminating
study would disclose the existence of several
factors inattention to which is largely responsible for
this gloomy and despondent attitude, and that, on the
contrary, the outlook is not dark, but promising indeed.
Without attempting in this place the impossible task
of a complete analysis, I venture to call your attention
to six points which differelltiate lnodern industrial
society from all its predecessors. These are: first, the
practical exhaustion of free land; second, the predominance
of industrial capital; third, the application
of scientific methods; fourth, the existence of a competitive
regitne based on the newer conception of liberty;
fifth, the spread of education and the birth of a distinct
public opinion; sixth, a true democratic spirit and the


### ---Economics-1903-0-10.txt---
growth of a new idealism. What is the real import of
these faetors ?

First, the virtual disappearanee of free lancl. This
lnakes slavery forever impossible in the future. Reeellt
investigations have proved beyond the peradventure of
a doubt that slavery as a typieal eeonomie system is
ascribalJle to the existence of vast quantities of untilled
tlJacts sllitable for agrieulture. Where any one ean procllre
fresh lalld for notllillg, he will not readily work for
another; and when the soil is so exuberantly fertile
that it eall endure the wastefullaess of slave eultivation,
eolnplllsorv and not volu}ltary labor will be the dominant
ellaraeteristic of the produetion. Slavery did not beeollle
illlportant in Greeee 1lntil tlae eolollies yielded vast
stretclles of virgin land g the yeotnall farmer in Rome
did not disappear until the world eollquests of the later
republic threw into the lnarket sueh prodigious supplies
of new territory as to ll-lake slave labor on the large
estates luerative. It was preeisely the same eause that
produeecl slavery in the West Indies and owl the Aloleriean
eontinent. Those days, however, have gone, never to
return. Fresh sllpplies of that kind of land are with
insignifieant exeeptions no longer proeurable. The
older eountries are quite filled up, and in the newer
seetions conditions are unfavorable. In both Australia
and Siberia the elitIlate is inimieal to slavery. In South
Ameriea the patnpas are the home of a grazing rather
than of an agrieultural eoulmnnity, and it is well know
that the floek tending and llerdillg life is not eondueive
to slavery on a large seale; on the other lland, the agrieultural
regions of South Ameriea have realized that
slave produetion is inadequate to meet the eompetition
of free labor in the world rtlarket where their produets
are sold. It is only in the mining distriets of South


### ---Economics-1903-0-11.txt---
Afriea alad in the tropieal islands of Asia that the COIlditions
are still favorable to slavery. Were they to
form so eontrolliIlg a part of the elupire as in former
clays in the eolollies of Greeee ancl Rome, the present
struggle in Ellglandn Hollancl, Germany, alad the UIlited
States to solve the labor probletn in the clepelldeneieWs
without reeol1rse to eolnpulsion would be far less likely
of aeeomplishmellt. It is beeause the entirely diGerent
eeolaomie systerns ancl eonsequent soeial ethies of the
mother eountries are now the potent faetors in the world
that we ean eollfidently look -forward to the speedy passing
of slavery in eve1-y part of the globe. Morality, indeed,
is cloing its noble work, but at bottoIll lies the
disappearanee of free land.
Seeonclly, the predominanee of industrial eapital.
Sotne thinkers, from Phaleas of old to the Henry George
and Loria of to-day, aseribe all ot1r soeial troubles to
landed conditions. Others, like Demolills in Franee alad
Brooks Aclams at hotlle, tell llS that the eomlnereial
route is the seeret of prosperity and deeadellee. There
is a eertain degree of trutll in eaeh of these eontentiolls
as an exp]anation of the past. Both elasses of thinkers,
however, fail to reeognize the essential ellanges brought
about byT 1lloderll industrialism. The eonditions of landholding
undoubtedly played a dominant role in Ronze,
as they did in feudal Europe and eolonial Ameriea.
The eontrol of the trade routes was assuredly the ehief
faetor in the rise and fall of the oriental tnonarehies, of
the Greek eity states, of the Italiala and Gerlnan towns,
of Portugal and Spain. But why is this? Clearly beeause
of the absellee of industrial eapital. In the one
ease the eeol1omie system was based on the aseendelley
of land as a faetor in productioll; in the other ease on
the equal or even superior foree of eomlnercial eapital.


### ---Economics-1903-0-12.txt---
In the strict scientific sense, capital has indeed existed
from the time of the first hunter's bow and arrow. But
for practical purposes and for real aid in solving actual
problems, the common man is perfectly justified in
calling this the capitalistic age, just as Karl Marx was
entirely correct in employilag the word " capital " to
describe the essential modern phenomenon. The economist
calls attention to the fact that capital in the
generic sense Inay be put into land, into trade, or into
industry; but to the illterpreter of social forces the
typical fortn of capital to-day is industrial capital, as in
feudal times it was landed capital, alad as in so lnany
civilizations of old it was trade capital. We have only
lately been remincled that classic Greece, for itlstance,
had its beginnings, its middle ages, and its modern titnes.
But in anciellt Greece, even at the height of its power,
slave labor was the chief factor in production, and industry
was predominantly of the small, non-capitalistic
type. Again, the medixval guild systeon of industry
was in almost esZery respect a contrast to our modern
regime. The land problern is no doubt stil] important
in a country like ours where seventy per cent of the
exports are agricultural; the commercial prolDlem is
still important in a country like ours which is seeking
to secure its share in the trade of the newly opened
Orient. But were we to read the signs aright, we should
realize that in our case, as in that of all our great coznpetitors,
the secret of ultimate success is to be sought,
not in the land question, not in ollr trade relations, but
in the fundatnelltal conditions of industrial eIlterprise at
home. Industrial capital as distinct frotn agricultural
ol commercial capital is a product of modem times; it
has never before existed as the tolle-giving element of
society; it is destilled to produce very diflerent consequences.


### ---Economics-1903-0-13.txt---
Agricultural capital and commercial capital
have been responsible for the landed and trading aristocracies
of the past; industrial capital correctly
analyzed and rightly colstrolled means not industrial
aristocracy, but industrial democracy.
Thirdly, and intimately connected with what had just
been said, is the modern application of scientific methods
to industry. We speak glibly of the recent progress of
science, but few realize the true import of this growing
subjection of nature to man, and of the revolutionary
character of this harnessing of the powers of the universe
to the yoke of the human intellect. For one thing it has
made possible an almost limit]ess increase in production.
Landed capital, under the non-scientific methods of the
past, was able to go so far and no farther. Even when
extensive methods of agriculture were replacecl by the
intensive systems, the operation of the law of diminishing
returns SOOll made itself felt, and marked a limit
beyond which aclvance was impossible. The advent of
coznmercial capital indeed increased prosperity, and to
the extent that exchange is really a phase of production
augmented the productive power of the world. But here
again its efficiency was limited within narrow bounds.
Creating new values simply by the bartering of existing
values, the pyramid of wealth rested on the basis of the
actual production within each cotnmunity, and could not
be piled up beyond a certain height. But with modern
industrial capital and the snatching from nature of her
intimate secrets, the utilization of natural resources
within each country has become almost boundless, and
provides an ever broadening base for the benefits of trade
and commerce.

It is for this reason that the history of the world in
the future is to be so different from the past. In former


### ---Economics-1903-0-14.txt---
times, after a certain point had been reached in agriculture
and commerce, human ingenuity was powerless
to do more than divide existing wealth; and with this
Exed litnit to production, it is no wonder that each civilization
in turn should have attempted to secure the prize
for itself. Hence the rise, the glory, and the decline of
nations. In future, however, in lieu of dividing existing
wealth, each nation which lives up to its opportunities
will be able to create new wealth. For we must not
forget that science is not only boundless in its possibilities,
but ilz-partial in its activities. Science transcends
all national lines. Never again will a country be able to
achieve or to retain a monopoly of industrial advantages.
For the time being, indeed, climatic conditions or racial
characteristics may give one nation a temporary preponclerance
in some particular category of production;
but with the overwhelllling importance of new industrial
lllethods applicable impartially to all natural forces,
the advantage cannot be perlnanently retained.
We are accustomed to speak of the economic and
social changes brought about by the alteration in the
media of transportation and the growth of the world
luarket; we do not yet realize the full implication of the
industrial revolution. Rightly conceived it means the
coming internationalistn of mighty etnpires, in friendly
competition with each other, not for the clivision of what
exists, but for the utilization of what can be made to
exist. For the immediate future, indeed, while nations
are still in uneqally developed stages of industrial
growth and while there remains extended markets not
yet on the highroad to industrial predominance, there
will still be some room for the nationalism of the old
type with its protective features and its cotumercial
struggles. In these contests we must undoubtedly take


### ---Economics-1903-0-15.txt---
our part. But with every decade's progress in science
the conditions will change, and the old nationalisln of
exclusiveness will melt into the new cosmopolitanism
based upon the continua] progress of each great and
economically homogeneous community.
The fourth characteristic of the modern age is the
development of the competitive regime. This needs
but little more than a mention. Several of the former
presidents of this Association have made you familiar
with the real meaning of cotnpetition. They have
pointed out that a competition of the right kind is a
necessity to social progress that progress consists not
in doing away with competition but in raising it to a
higher plane; not in suppressing it, but in preserving
and extending it, while substituting a loyal for a disloyal
rivalry. What often seems to be the crushing of
coznpetition is in reality the replacing of a lower by a
higher form. The trade-union movement, for instance,
with the progress from individual to collective bargaining,
seems frozn one point of view to lessen competition,
but no one who understallds the real philosophy of the
movement can doubt for a moment that on the whole it
makes for a truer and more perfect competition based
(n the equality of the contending forces. The trust
seems to be the very negation of competition, and yet if
the conditions of loyal and healthy enterprise are insisted
upon, and the trust be not permitted to take advantage
of a legal code lagglllg behind the economic
development, the llet results of the movemetlt may well
prove to be the sloughing off of the evils of a lower
competition and the attaintnent of a higher form of
emulation.

It is precisely here that the force of the fifth factor
becomes apparent, the emergence of a true public


### ---Economics-1903-0-16.txt---
opinion to bolster up this demand for the retention and
strengthenillg of the right kind of competition. In
alltiquity political and social opinion was a class
opinion. In the middle ages the incoherent public
opinion was intolerant to competition. In modern
titnes the progress of econotnic thought and the pressure
of econonaic fact in uplifting the hitherto submerged
classes of the community are generating a public
opinion which frankly recognizes the benefits of a
healtlly coznpetitioll, but which insists more and more
on effective social control of competition to the end that
it be elevated and purified.
This is the true uleaning of the sixth point of difference,
the flower and the fruit of all its forerunners, the
existence of the democratic ideal. We pOillt, indeed, with
cotllplacency to the advance made by the working classes,
but to those who realize the essential conclitions of successful
clemocracy, where the mass of citizens are necessarilwT
the laborers, the ideal to be attained advances still
ulore quickly than tl-le actual progress. The brutish,
lethargic peasant of the old world is content witl-l his
crust anci his misery. The free citizen of our industrial
dezzlocracy wants, and wants justly, to participate in the
spiritual as well as the material benefits of tnodern civilization.
With every advance in his econoznic position,
due to the interplay of modern industrial forces, new
vistas of possibilities discloce tllemselves, new sources
of legitimate satisfaction make their appearance. The
social unrest of to-day, with all its disquieting and deplorable
incidents, is on the whole a salutary symptom.
It is bllt the labor-pains in the birth of the new industrial
order which has been in the making for the past few
generations, and of which the faint outlines are even now
discernible.


### ---Economics-1903-0-17.txt---
A stud; of the econoznic forces now at work thus justifies
a reasonable hopefulness. The productinre powers of
society are augmenting at such a prodigious rate that we
need 1lo longer apprehelld a decay of general prosperity
or of natural power. There is to be no fl1rtller irruption
of the barbarian, because there will soon be no more
barbarians. There is to be no swinging back of the
pendulum of civilization, because uncler the inlqllence of
the new economic forces only those nations can succeed
that understand how to utilize industrial capital, and
this comprehension inlplies an ever ascendillg stage of
civilization. There is to be no dotllinatioll of each llation
in turn over all the others, because of the inter-llationality
of science and the impartial territorial diSusion of
industrial agencies. Ancl within each nation, while the
rich are getting richer, the poor are not getting poorer.
The creation of a ulore equable, because a more perfect,
competition throllgh the development of the systenl of
collective bargaining and the lnore adequate supervision
of monopoly; the recognition on the part of the legislator
that lastillg prosperity depends not only on the
conservation and free play of capital bl1t on the gradl1al
elevation of the laborer frorn a cheap man to a dear man;
the coming social control of coznpetition itself in the interests
of a ulore ellliglltened and 11ence really freer
rivalry, all these will inevitably tend to secure to each
class in the community its proper share in the national
dividencl.

This is not fatalism. This is not the preaching of
" hands off." Far from it ! Man is a product of history,
but history is luade by man. Modern economic forces
indeecl provide new opportunities for all. But whether
the correct use be made of the opportunities depellds on
the wisdom, the energy, the capacity of each individual,


### ---Economics-1903-0-18.txt---
of each social class, of each community. The economic
life is the basis of social progress, but the economic
environment which conditions this life is fast becoming
an artificially created environlnent. In the creation of
this etavironment there is a continually growing sphere
for the conscious activity of the social group. With
the subordination of the individual to the social interest,
to the advantage of individual and society alike, there
is an ever enlarging field and ever more pressing need
for the wise regulation which will ensure a more even,
a more equable, and a more harmonious development.
Economic theory, therefore, has a progressively important
role to play in the future. With the cotnmandi
ng significance of the economic life in its influence
on social progress, economics, in pointing out
exactly what is, will inevitably concern itself with
what ought to be. If the economist is the real
philosopher of social life, he vvill take a more notable
part in future speculation and future legislation. The
different social classes, by reason of their very being,
see only the particular, not the general interests. The
farmer understands the workings of Wall Street and the
factory hand comprehends the condition of the world
market as little as the capitalist realizes the true ideals
of the laborer. To let any one class act as spokesman
for the other is pregnant with danger. The economist,
if he is worthy of his calling, will proceed without fear
or favor; he will be tabooed as a socialist by some, as a
minion of capital by others, as a theorist by more; but
if he preserves his clearness of vision, his openness of
mind, his devotion to truth, and his sanity of judgment,
the deference paid to his views, which is even now beginning
to be apparent in this country, will become
more and more pronounced. The influence of economic


### ---Economics-1903-0-19.txt---
conditions on economic theory has been, let us hope,
abundantly demonstrated; but the reciprocal influence
of economic theory on actual conditions is in danger of
being overlooked. For as the science itself becomes
more and more complete, it alone will be in a better
position to apprehend and to explain the real content of
existing conditions and the true method of making the
actual conform to the ideal. Natural science necessarily
movesawithin the framework of natural forces, but he
who runs may read the lesson of the control of these
same natural forces through modern scientific achievements.
So in the same way economic science, which
is to-day only in its infancy, and which of all disciplines
is the most difficult and the most complicated, is indeed
interlaced with and founded upon the actual conditions
of the time; but, like natural science, the econotnics of
the future will enable us to comprehend the living
forces at work, and by comprehending will put us in a
position to control them and to ulould them to ever
higher uses. Economics is therefore both the creature
and the creator. It is the creature of the past; it is
the creator of the future. Correctly conceived, adequately
outlined, fearlessly developed, it is the prop of
ethical upbuilding, it is the basis of social progress.
 ## Economics-1904-0


### ---Economics-1904-0-01.txt---
In the address which I had the honor to deliver on this
presidential platform last year, attention was directed to
the relation between economics and social progress. The
effort was made more particularly to estimate the weight
to be attached to the influence of economic forces upon
social life, and to the effect of economic doctrines on social
speculation. This year we shall, with your leave, look
at the reverse of the shield, and endeavor to study some
of the social aspects of economic facts and theories. In
lieu of centering our gaze upon the narrow, although
stable, economic foundation of social thought and social
institutions, let us direct our view to the broad, but deep,
social basis of economic principle and economic fact.
Last year we studied some of the economic aspects of
social law; this year we shall study some of the social
aspects of economic law.
Such a course seems to require some justification. Why
weary us with an old story, it will be said ? Why reiterate
a thrice told tale ? Do we not know that the economic
life is a part of the wider social life? Are we
not fully aware of the fact that economics is a social
science, and that every economic theory is in large part
social in character ? Do we not realize, quite adequately,
the social imprint upon every economic fact ?
In reply to such objections, I have to answer this:


### ---Economics-1904-0-02.txt---
We grasp the form, but not the substance. We think
that we appreciate the social basis of economic law, but
in reality our appreciation is fragmentary. We do the
theory lip-service, but not brain-homage. We are oblivious
of its real significance. Because of this, in some
of the basic questions of economic theory there are discord
and confusion, where there should be harmony.
Because of this, in some of the most important questions
of applied economics, we are floundering about,
tossed on the stormy sea of doubt without rudder or
compass. Because of this, some of the current and
seemingly fundamental doctrines of public finance are
in reality erroneous, or at least impotent to explain
modern tendencies or to afford any satisfactory clue to
the solution of modern difficulties. By their fruits shall
ye know them !

This is a severe and comprehensive indictment. You
will accordingly expect me to substantiate these charges,
at least so far as it is possible to do so within the limits
of a single address.
The contrast between the social and the individual
point of view has recently been made familiar to us in
allied domains. Take, for instance, the whole range of
ethical inquiry. Without entering at all upon the
deeper problems of transcendental origins and supraniundane
sanctions, and limiting ourselves to a consideration
of human development, it is now substantially
conceded, or at least coming more and more to be recognized,
that private ethics is an outgrowth of social
ethics, that the morality of the individual has been
fashioned by the morality of the social group, and that
the very conception of right and wrong, so far as it is of
human origin at all, is the product of social, not of individual,
forces. The weakness of the early utilitarian


### ---Economics-1904-0-03.txt---
theory is to be sought not in the fact that it propounded
a hedonistic explanation of morality, but in that it placed
itself uponl the narrow ground of individual utility
rather than upon the broad foundation of social utility.
Our concern, however, is with economic, rather than
with ethical, forces; and in the economic field we
have ample and palpable proof of the short comings of
the individual point of view, in history and in theory
alike.

Take, for instance, Adam. Smith's account of the essential
principle of economic progress. You remember
that Adam Smith finds the explanation in the division
of labor, and thinks that this is the result of a certain
trait in human nature, " the propensity to truck, barter,
and exchange one thing for another." This individual
propensity is made by Adam Smith the corner stone of
his entire edifice of economics. Yet modern research in
ethnology has disclosed the undoubted fact that he is
quite mistaken. Far from there having been a natural
propensity in man to truck and barter, the original propensity
was just the reverse. Exchange was at the outset,
and for many long centuries, considered not natural, but
unnatural; not normal, but abnormal ; not economic,
but uneconomic ; not useful, but reprehensible.
An analysis of the very terms used by Adam Smith
shows this clearly enough. To truck is etymnologically
to trick, to cheat ; barter is another form of barrator,
and although barratry persists to-day only as a particular
kind of crime, its primary meaning was far broader.
Exchange was therefore originally deemed a bad thing,
a heinous offence, as involving a wrong to the other
party.

But, furthermore, we now know with some degree of
verisimilitude how barter arose, and how it slowly


### ---Economics-1904-0-04.txt---
changed from a wasteful to an economic process. Recent
investigation has disclosed to us the phenomenon of
the silent trade, and has made it clear that the earliest
forms of exchange were inter-tribal, and not intratribal.
It was only after the early hordes or clans had
worked out the system of joint and collective presents
and counterpresents which form the basis of primitive
group barter, that the individual members of the clan
came to recognize the applicability of a similar system
within the group. Private barter is the result of comnmunal
barter, individual trade is an outgrowth of social
trade. The propensity to truck, far from being a natural
and original inclination of the individual, as Adam
Smith thought, is a direct product of social forces. It is
not antecedent, but consequent.
What is true historically is true analytically. If economics
is a science at all, it is a science of values-not
of all values indeed, but of economic values. Yet some
of the basic discussions of economic theory are still beclouded
by the inability to distinguish the social character
of value. The favorite study of Robinson Crusoe,
who figures so prominently in the older treatises, is indeed
still useful as affording an illustration of the psychology
underlying all individual choices ; but the attempt
to apply these conclusions directly to modern
economic problems is fraught with peril, because the
economic life of to-day rests not on Robinson Crusoe conditioni.
s, but on social conditions. I have elsewhere
called attention to the fact that the contest still raging
between the partisans of the cost theory and of the utility
theory of value is at bottom. based oil a tnisconceptioin,
and with your permission I shall spend just a motnent
in recalling this rather technical point to your
minds.


### ---Economics-1904-0-05.txt---
When we say, correctly enough, that value' is the expression
of utility, we really mean that it is the expression
of social marginal utility. While social utility indeed
is made up of a combination of individual utilities
-that is, while a thing cannot be useful to society unless
it is useful to the individuals who compose the social
group, the marginal utility that controls value is the reflection
of the social marginal utility. Even though a
pound of iron may at a given moment conceivably be
of more direct use to an individual than a pound of diamonds,
a pound of iron does not satisfy as mnany, or as
urgent, social wants as a pound of diamonds. Iron is
less valuable than diamonds because its social mnaroginal
utility is less. In the saine way, when we say that value
depends on cost, we refer really to social, not to individual,
cost. The street sweeper inay work harder than an
opera singer, yet the value of his services will be less.
It miay cost me five days to make a table that the factory
will turn out in five hours, yet my table will not
sell for more. The marginal cost around which values
gravitate is not individual cost, but social cost. The
value of a commodity is due not to the labor of the individual
who has made it, but to the social service which
it is going to render, that is, to the social sacrifice which
it is going to save. When we say that individual cost
of production fixes value, we really mean that it expresses
the value that is fixed by social forces as a whole.
The failure to recognize the essential equivalence of
marginal utility and marginal cost is due to the neglect
of this social element. It is true indeed that in modern
life there is no such equivalence for the individual considered
as such; and this has led most thinkers astray.
If a knife ordinarily exchanges for a book, to any one
1 " The Social Elements in Value, " Quarterly Journal of Economics.
vol. XV, 1901.


### ---Economics-1904-0-06.txt---
individual the pleasure may still be less than the sacrifice,
and to his neighbor the sacrifice may be less than
the pleasure. I may like a cow more than a horse, or I
may be able to raise a particular horse for less than a
particular cow; but that will not enable me to buy
horses in the market for less than cows. The balance or
equilibrium is not between the pain and the pleasure of
the individual, but between the pain and the pleasure of
the group. Individual utility is indeed not equal to individual
cost; but social marginal utility must everywhere
be equivalent to social marginal cost. The idea that there
is an inevitable opposition between the cost theory and
the utility theory of value rests on the failure to discern
its social basis.

Let us look at some of the consequences of this failure.
The classical economists thought that they had hit upon
an important truth in differentiating the theory of international
trade from that of domestic trade. As filially
developed by Cairnes, the theory of international trade
rests on an acute analysis of reciprocal demand and reciprocal
cost in the sense of comparative social sacrifice.
But Cairnes, like Ricardo and Mill before him, did not
see that the same analysis is applicable to all trade, that
is to all value, because in internal, as well as in international,
commerce the controlling considerations are social,
and not individual in character. It must therefore
not surprise us to find that only the other day the gifted
Prime Minister of England issued a noteworthy pronunciamento
on the tariff agitation, in which he employed
as one of the fundamental premises of the argument for
protection, or rather for retaliation, precisely this unreal
distinction between the theory of international and the
theory of internal trade.' When we reflect on the weight
1 Economic Notes on Insular Free Trade. By the Rt. Hon. Arthur
James Balfour. I903. p. 5.


### ---Economics-1904-0-07.txt---
to be attached to this ministerial manifesto in the politics
of a great nation, must we not recognize the important
consequences of such an error in theory.
I do not wish to be understood as intimating that because
one of the premises happens to be unfortunately
chosen, the conclusion cannot be defended on other
grounds. On the contrary, the relation between the individual
and the social elements of economics has often
been inadequately expounded by the free traders, no less
than by the protectionists. Adam Smith himself seems
to realize that the collective interests are paramount,
when he seeks to unfold the principles of the Wealth of
Nations, but he identifies the social with the individual
interests when subject to the unimpeded action of natural
law. The Mercantilists of old based their demands
for extreme protection on the mistaken theory of balance
of trade-mistaken, because it confused the collective
economy with the private economny-because it assumed
that a country, like an individual, must have a surplus
money income. But the Free Traders went to anl opposite
extreme when they identified the social with the
individual interest and claimed that if only individual
action be unfettered and if free scope be given to the
principle of self-interest the results are bound to be beneficent
for the group as well.
Another illustration of the tangle of thought into
which we are plunged by the failure to realize the social
implication of economic law is to be found in the theory
of private property. We have been taught that our
modern age is immeasurably superior to that of classic
antiquity, and as a typical proof we are referred to the
progress in the theory of property. The Roman doctrine
of private property was that of occupation, and is
no doubt to be explained in large measure by the facts


### ---Economics-1904-0-08.txt---
in the development of Ronian life. On the other hand,
the theory as elaborated by the philosophers, aud tacitly
accepted by the people, of recent centuries is the labor
theory. We pride ourselves on the advance that has been
made. The Rornans seized their property, so it is said;
we earn our property: the one is a brutal doctrine; the
other a moral doctrine.
And yet, half uneasily, half regretfully, we are beginning
to realize that things are not quite so simple; that
the labor theory does not exactly fit into the facts of
modern life. In truth, the labor theory, like the occupation
theory, is deficient because it looks at the individual,
instead of the social, element. Take for example
our modern problem of irrigation. The English common
law conception of private property-the property
that reaches, as has been drastically said, from heaven
to hell-is a product of a moist climate-of conditions
where there is an abundance-nay, even a superabundance-
of water, and where private interest could be
safely depended upon to give the best results. But in
the arid and semi-arid regions of our western empire,
neither occupation nor labor is deemed to give an equitable
title to the river or the adjacent riparian lands.
The new code of private property which is springing up
in the West is one in which the individual rights are
clearly and forcibly held subservient to those of the
community.

What is true of irrigable land in the West is true in
varying degree of many forms of private property in the
East. " May I not do as it listeth tue with my own," is a
cry far less frequently heard than of old. Private property
as a concept will no doubt always remain with us;
but the content of the concept is changing and has
changed from the beginning of civilization. Property


### ---Economics-1904-0-09.txt---
in slaves was at one time considered economically advantageous
and morally defensible. Private ownership of
the highways was not so long ago usual and justifiable.
In the city of New York to-day the process of the extinction
of private property in docks is fast going oil.
If, as- Carlyle tells us, no one believes what his grandfather
believed, we may almost say no man owns what
his g(ranldfatlher has owned. Moreover, not only do we
no longer own the same things, but even where this is
the case, we do not own them ill precisely the same
way. What phrases are more coinmnon to-day than the
obligation of wealth-the public trusteeship of property,
and the like. How long will it be before we tread the
same path that hlas been opened up in the fiscal domain,
where voluntary contributions have become transmuted
into compulsory payments, and where the moral duty
is now converted into a legal obligation. With the advance
of society the individual element ill the justification
and ill the conitent of private property recedes, and
the social element comes to the fore.
Another application of the same principle may be
seen in the controversy that is agitating all parts of our
country to-day-the labor question, with the problem of
trade-unionism and the open shop. If there were time,
it would be profitable to dwell upon this thought-that
while there is indeed only too much truth in the contention
that many of our unions are steering perilously close
to the rocks of xuonopoly and extortion, the problem
cannot be solved simply by emphasizing the right of the
individual laborer. The right of the individual to work
is indeed, as Turgot told us over a century ago, a sacred
and imprescriptible right; but the conditions under which
this right is to be exercised are by no means a matter of
mere individual discretion and of social unconcern. We


### ---Economics-1904-0-10.txt---
are beginning to see that the securest guarantee of liberty
is the social sanction-that true and permanent freedom
is at bottom all outgrowth of social forces, and that
individual bargaining results in a mere empty husk of
freedom. Liberty-to quote Carlyle again-is a divine
thing; the liberty to die by starvation is not so divine.
If this is true, then the real sacredness and imprescriptibility
attach to that wise and collective action which
will secure a higher and more effective liberty for the
members of the group, and which it goes without saying
must be so devised as not to close the door of opportunity
to either the unfortunate or the peculiarly gifted.
To magnify the individual at the expense of the social
group is to close our eyes to the real forces that have
elaborated modern liberty and modern democracy, not
in the backwoods of a frontier community but in the
busy marts of commerce and the complex home of industry.


But however tempting the pursuit of this line of inquiry
would be, I must pass it by in order to reach what
is in some respects a still more important illustration.
This is to be found in the domain of public finance.
Partly for this reason, and partly because the questions
of public finance have never been touched upon by any
of my predecessors in their presidential addresses, I venture
to deal with this part of the subject at greater
length.

The point I have in mind is concerned with a fundamental
problem in taxation. In the ordinary manuals
we find the chief emphasis put on the principles of uniformity
and universality of taxation. The study of distributive
justice, in its economic foundations, has long
been the storm center of scientific fiscal controversy.
Whether with the older writers we advocate the doctrine


### ---Economics-1904-0-11.txt---
that men should be called upon to discharge their obligations
to government in accordance with the benefit
they receive from it-or whether with the newer writers
we accept the doctrine that taxes should be levied in
proportion to the ability of the tax-payer-in both cases
alike the starting point and the goal of the discussion is
the individual. This of course does not mean that these
doctrines equally rest upon what might be called the
atomic doctrine of the state. On the contrary, it is a
matter of common knowledge that while the benefit
theorists accept that conception of government which
has been described as "'anarchy plus the policeman"
the faculty theorists on the contrary count in their
ranks the advocates of radical social reform and even
most of the socialists themselves.
The point that it is desired to emphasize, however, is
that both schools are individualistic in the sense that
their conception of justice in taxation revolves about the
burden resting on the original individual who pays the
taxes, and disregards the subtler consequences of the
economic law that governs the transaction. Just as the
benefit theorists think only of the advantages accruing
to the individual, so the faculty theorists are primarily
concerned with the problem of equal sacrifice as between
individuals, with the exemption of the individual minimum
of subsistence, and with the scheme of graduated
taxation as between individuals. They, like the others,
have in mind first and foremost the individual.
Now, there are two remarkable facts connected with
this modern development of fiscal theory. In the first
place, every American investigator cannot but be struck
with the discrepancy in our text books between the
theories and the application of the theories. My distinguished
predecessor in this presidential chair, Professor


### ---Economics-1904-0-12.txt---
Henry C. Adams, will I trust not think that aily betrayal
of confidence is involved when I recall his statement that
the great difficulty with which lie had to contend, when
writing his admirable work on the Science of Finance,
was the well-nigh insuperable task of making his collclusions,
drawn from the theory of ability, of any practical
avail wheti dealing with our specific problems.
And if we could analyze the thought of many members
of this audience, I am confident that my distinguished
predecessor is not by any means the only one who has
been forcibly struck by this fact. The theoretical conclusions
all seem to point one way, and the possibility
of practical application the other. In fact, if I may be
pardoned for sounding a personal note, it was this yawning
gulf, this gaping hiatus between theory and application
which prevented me from publishing several years
ago the results of a protracted study on the Income Tax.
I did not then understand that the difficulty is far more
deep-rooted, and that the disparity is due not to any
doctrine of faculty, but to the underlying individual
basis of the accepted theory of finance.
Not only are the conclusions of the generally received
doctrine inapplicable to our condition, but-and here we
come to the second remarkable fact-the recent history
of American taxation seems to be in flat contradiction
to the very foundations of the theory. Equality and
universality of taxation are accepted as the corner-stones
of the faculty theory. How then shall we explain the
indubitable fact that our general property tax is disappearing,
that personalty is slipping out of the assessment
lists, and that in all our great industrial centers at least,
real estate has come to bear well nigh the exclusive
burden. Where are the equality and the universality of
that practice? How shall we explain the fact that while


### ---Economics-1904-0-13.txt---
indirect taxation is theoretically opposed to the doctrine
of equality, in the country as a whole the revenue from
indirect taxation is a continually increasing proportion
of the total income. And if it is claimed that at all
events our modern taxation of corporations is a step in
the direction of greater equality, do you not see that the
real tax-payers are not these fictitious entities which are
called corporations, but the human beings that compose
them ? Taxation of the corporation is not taxation of
the individual security holder. for the majority of the
securities ill great classes of our corporations are in the
hands of the bond-holders who are not touched by the
tax; since in ev ery solvent corporation the payment of the
stipulated interest is deemed a fixed charge, taking
precedence of the payment of taxes. Wherever we
turn the facts seem to give the lie to the doctrine of
ability.

What is the explanation of this curious state of affairs ?
Are we really going to the bad ? Have we lost our grip
on the cardinal principles of justice ? Or is the fault to
be ascribed to the theory rather than to the facts. And
if so, where shall we look for its weakness, and what is
the new doctrine that is capable of interpreting the
facts, and of clearing up the mnist ill which the whole
subject is enshrouded.
To these queries I would answer: our American developmlient
is based not on injustice, but on justice ; it is
moving ill the righlt, not in the wrong direction ; it is in
accord with, not in opposition to, the real economic law.
If the current theory does not harmonize with the facts,
so much the worse for the theory. In truth we have
been living ill a fool's paradise. We have accepted from
the European writers, and have developed with wearisome
iteration, a doctrine which is not only in flat contradiction


### ---Economics-1904-0-14.txt---
to our American phenomena, but which if
they were carefully analyzed, would be seen to be in almost
equal opposition to the facts of European life. We
base our theory of taxation on an explanation which
does not explain. It is high time that we should emancipate
ourselves from this foolish fetichism.
A few writers have indeed felt that there was something
wrong, but have been unable to locate the real
point of weakness. McCulloch, for instance, several
decades ago, confessed that according to the accepted
theory the income tax is ideal-; but with the sound
common sense of an Englishman he sturdily maintained
that in practice the income tax is a fraud, and he contended
that indirect taxes were therefore indispensable.
Hence his conclusion that equality of taxation cannot
be attained, and that what is right must give way to
what is expedient and practicable-truly a lamentable
conclusion. More recently Mr. Edwin Cannan stated
that " economy plays and should play a much greater
part, and equity a much smaller part, in schemes of taxation
than is commonly supposed." If this were true
we might as well abandon the notion that at bottom
there is an essential correlation between economic and
moral law, we might as well relinquish the belief, so
deeply cherished by some of us, that in the long run
the true economic welfare of a community is identical
with its abiding ethical interests.
But it is not true, and the failure to detect the truth,
the inability to perceive the real cause of the clash between
the theory and the practice is ascribable to the
fact that we have put the emphasis upon the individual,
rather than upon the social, aspect of economic law. Let
me make my meaning clear.
When we speak of the burdens of taxation, we ordinarily


### ---Economics-1904-0-15.txt---
think of the individual-of the burden upon one
man as compared with that upon his neighbor. For in
last resort it is always the individual who pays, either
by dipping his hand into his own pocket, or by suffering
a diminution in the revenue which he would enjoy if
there were no tax. On this assumption we proceed to
elaborate our highly wrought theories of fiscal equity.
Thus we say that taxes should be proportional or progressive,
that equality means relative equality as between
individuals in the community, and that the real sacrifice
imposed upon one man should not differ from that imposed
upon his neighbor.

It is indeed true that writers on finance have been
cognizant of the fact that not all taxes are borne by
those that pay them in first instance. A chapter or two
on the shifting and incidence of taxation is to be found
in almost every treatise. But for the most part the distinction
has been between direct and indirect taxes; and
in the case of the indirect taxes, which are shifted to
the final consumer, it has usually been thought that
there is no room for any application of the doctrine of
ability and sacrifice. To this is to be ascribed, in part
at least, the effort of modern fiscal reformers to diminish
the scope of indirect taxes.
But here we have a remarkable situation. It is conceded
that when we tax the individual owner of a comnmodity
which is subsequently disposed of by purchase
and sale we must regard the economic law governing
the transaction and study the consequences which affect
other individuals, ise., the social results. If, however,
the owner of the article does not dispose of it directly,
but uses it to secure a revenue with which he then
parts, we call it by some hocus pocus a tax on property,
not a tax on commodities; and we shut our eyes to the


### ---Economics-1904-0-16.txt---
essentially identical process of economic law. If we sell
the sheep in the market, the tax, so it is said, is indirect;
if we keep the sheep on the farm, and sell only the wool,
we term it a direct or property tax. If a real estate
broker deals in land, the tax on the land as it goes
through his hands is an indirect tax, and presumably
outside of the realm of ability; if he purchases the land,
and sells the wheat, the tax is a direct tax, and to be
judged by the principle of sacrifice.
This is far more than a mere question of nomenclature.
In the one case we follow the working out of economic
law through alterations in values; in the other case we
assume that there are no such chances. In the one
case we regard the social elements in the problem; in
the other, we keep our eyes fixed on the individual element.
Yet in essence what is the difference ? What is
the magic which transmutes a commodity into something
different from a piece of property. A commodity
is an economic concept ; property is a legal concept
at bottom a particular article is nothing but a forni of
wealth, and subject to the laws that govern wealth.
Yet the core of economic law is the study of the social
relations of individuals. The entire distinction between
direct and indirect taxes in the sense that in the one
case we have to deal with immediate results, and in the
other with ulterior consequences-this entire distinction
is illusory. In the one case as in the other the conspicuous
fact is the social process.
It must indeed not be forgotten that some writers
have in part apprehended this, and have endeavored to
elaborate a universal law of fiscal causation. Adam
Smith and Ricardo were on the right track but their
efforts were largely frustrated by the fact that they centered
their attention upon the shares in distribution


### ---Economics-1904-0-17.txt---
whereas in actual life we cannot reduce our bewildering
variety of imposts to the simple categories of taxes on
wages, rent and profits. Canard and his slender band of
followers went a step further in boldly proclaiming the
law of the general diffusion of taxes. But their exposition
failed to command assent because they overshot the
mark and overlooked the obvious cases where there is
no shifting at all. As a consequence, modern theory has
proceeded on the assumption that direct taxes at least
tend to stay where they are put, and that the ideals of
distributive justice are to be attained by an equitable apportionment
of such direct charges on the individuals.
It is high time that we realize the fallacy underlying
this assumption. As a matter of fact our complex modern
industrial society has rendered necessary a transition
from the individual to the social point of view, and calls
for a study of taxation based on the existence of econonic
law.

In such a study the two chief factors must be the
shifting and the capitalization of taxation. Each of
these has been more or less touched upon by previous
thinkers, but no effort has yet been made to bring them
into harmonious cooperation.
Capitalization is now a familiar conception. If a tax
of one per cent is imposed on a corporate five per cent
bond, previously selling at par, then if the bonds of
other classes of corporations are not taxed the man who
buys this bond will pay only $8o for it; le gets $5
interest and pays $i in taxes, and his net return of $4
bears the same proportion to $8o that the former net return
of $5 bore to $Ioo. In other words, the tax is
capitalized into the difference of the market value of the
bond, and the new purchaser who advances the money


### ---Economics-1904-0-18.txt---
does not bear the tax. As the original holders gradually
sell out, the tax in time comes to rest on no individual
at all.

The shifting of a tax is not much more complicated,
as a conception at least. If a special levy, for instance,
is imposed upon houses and reduces the income of
the owner, there will in ordinary circumstances be a
cessation in house building until with the progress of
population rents rise. But if rents rise, the manufacturer
or merchant who occupies the structure will be
compelled to charge more for his wares,; and if these
wares are the raw materials for some other product, the
rise will be successively transferred from one operation
to another until it loses itself in the prices paid by the
ultimate consumer.

Let us now combine these two conceptions. The
older doctrine of shifting led to the so-called diffusion
theory; the newer doctrine of capitalization leads to
what I would call the absorption theory. For in such
cases the tax is not diffused, but absorbed. Whether,
however, the tax is diffused or absorbed, the burden on
the individual who comes to be the permanent owner of
property ultimately vanishes. The combination of the
diffusion and of the absorption theories of taxation results
in what I should like to call the final disappearance
theory. That is, in all cases where a man parts
with his property or with the produce of his property or
his earnings-and in modern economic life this is more
and more overwhelmingly the rule,-the tax finally disappears
as a permanent burden on the individual on
whomn it is sought to be imposed; although, of course, it
does not disappear in its effects, often unlocked for, on the
economic progress of society as a whole, or of the various
social classes in particular.


### ---Economics-1904-0-19.txt---
If we apply this doctrine to our problem, we are confronted
by this situation. Take a tax on land, for instance.
In the case of agricultural land, provided that
in practice real estate is the well nigh exclusive, or at
least the preponderant form, of property assessed, the tax
is either shifted by being added to the price of the product
or, where conditions do not allow this, it is capitalized
into a lower selling value of the land, and when
the land changes hands the new purchaser buys himself
free of tax. Thus in the course of time the tax is diffused
through capitalization or shifting. In city real
estate the same is true ; either rents will go up, or prices
of lots will go down, and in the end the community as a
whole bears the burden.
Again, take personal property. In the case of tnortgages
it is now fairly well understood that a tax on the
manl who lends the money does not remain on him, but
leads to an increase in the rate of interest, with all kinds
of ulterior effects on building operations, and oil the
general fiscal and economic welfare of society. With
personal property invested in corporate securities, the
same results arise pilot only from shifting, but also from
capitalization. In the case of the railway bond, mentioned
above, the new purchaser does not suffer, but
neither does the shipper, provided any dividends at all
are earned. But ill the case of railway stocks, the depression
of market price that would follow the inlposition
of the tax might result in limiting the investment
of new capital to such an extent as to diminish facilities
or to raise rates. In the one case we would have capitalization,
in the other, shifting. But in neither case
would there be any permanent burden on the individual
security-holder who purchases after the imposition of
the tax.


### ---Economics-1904-0-20.txt---
The same analysis might be applied to all the other
forms of taxation. To keep our eyes riveted on the individual
taxpayer will only lead us astray.
A new light is thus thrown oil the distinction between
real and personal taxes. The books tell us that personal
taxes are bad because they are inquisitorial. This is
undoubtedly true. But tax reformers nevertheless advocate
personal taxes, because they think that in this way
alone can individual justice be secured. They fail to
realize that under modern economic conditions the only
kind of a personal tax which can be made to rest on the
individual is a poll tax, or a direct consumption tax,
both of which all agree in condemning. Under the
highly complex competitive conditions of to-day, the
general property tax becomes in practice a partial
property tax, or a tax on certain kinds of property,
irrespective of the question of individual ownership.
Under modern conditions a general income tax which is
presumed to reach with accuracy the ability of each individual
becomes in practice either what the Germans
call a itg- zind Trug System, a " lie and cheat system,"
with the burden primarily on the classes unable to pay;
or, as in England and her colonies, a series of imposts
not on the persons who receive the income, but on the
property which yields the income, or on the corporation
or the employer who pays the income. Iii neither case
is there any assurance of equivalence between the
amount of the tax and the ability of the recipient of the
income.

If we recollect that in the ultimate working out of
economic law there is no such distinction between real and
personal taxes, but that the difference is simply one of
administration and not of essence, our attitude to the
whole problem is changed and our opinion as to the ethical


### ---Economics-1904-0-21.txt---
superiority of personal to real taxes must be completely
modified. The new ideal is a tax on wealth, the old
ideal was a tax on the individual who owned the wealth.
The new ideal is a tax on the economic process or
phenomenon, the old ideal is a tax on the individual
subject of the phenomenon. The contrast is striking
and profound.

The origin of our present confusion is not far to seek.
In the middle ages there was no active competitive life.
Land was not commonly bought or sold, corporate securities
scarcely existed, and there was well nigh no field
for capitalization of taxation. Exemptions were granted
to individuals and to classes-not to classes of property,
but to classes of individuals owning property, which is
a very different thing. Taxes on consumption were so
contrived as to fall with crushing severity on the industrious
and the worthy. What wonder that the cry went
up for justice through individual equality of taxation.
And even to-day, in parts of this country where more
primitive economic conditions still prevail, there is some
saving virtue in a general property tax, as perhaps elsewhere
in a general income tax,each considered as a personal
obligation. The simpler a community, the weaker are
the action and interaction of social economic forces; the
more scope is there for the emphasis on the individual factor.
But in the more complex society of to-day, the society
of competitive capitalism, of mobility of economic agents,
of large industry and modern media of communication,
the problem. is no longer that of the individual, but of the
effect of economic law on the various classes of society,
on the agencies of production and on the facts of group,
rather than individual, consumption. What I have
called the disappearance theory of taxation rests on the
facts of social production and of group consumption.


### ---Economics-1904-0-22.txt---
What are the conclusions to be drawn from this theory
? They can be put succinctly as follows: Under conditions
as they already exist in a large part of this country,
and as they are fast coming to exist in the remainder,
the effort to secure justice in taxation does not imply
the need of considering only the individual. It is
not necessary to impose a tax on general property, for the
same result can be reached by taxing only special classes
of property, provided of course that we do not repeat the
medieval error of exempting particular individual owners
within each class. It is not requisite to tax all corporations,
since it suffices to tax only certain classes of
corporations. It is not necessary to tax all incomes,
when the same end can be attained by taxing certain
specific sources of income. Above all, while we do not
need to tax all consumable commodities, as by the general
excises of former days, it is equally unnecessary to apply
the predicate " just " to direct taxes, and to withhold
it from indirect taxes.
But I must not be misunderstood. In our impatience
with the old doctrine, we must be careful not to jump
too far to the other extreme. While it is true that property
taxes which are not shifted tend, according to the
absorption theory, to be capitalized, thus exempting the
future owner, the burden still remains on the present
owner. That is the very meaning of absorption, as opposed
to diffusion. Final disappearance does not mean
immediate disappearance, and in many cases the immediate
results are the important ones for the individual.
It is manifestly unfair to make the present bear all the
load of the future.

Hence it behooves us to go slowly. We must hesitate
before levying high special taxes on particular kinds of
business for fear of injuring the business itself, and thus
sacrificing both future and present. We must pause before


### ---Economics-1904-0-23.txt---
accepting the scheme of our single tax friends, because
their basis is too narrow, and the sacrifices demanded
from the present owners of land are too heavy.
Per contra, we need not accept the old project, now
again furbished up and presented by some, that the ideal
impost is a tax on all forms of productive capital,-for
quite irrespective of its magnificent impracticability, the
theory of capitalization renders it quite unnecessary.
Our American system is therefore moving in the right
direction. We do not levy our so-called indirect taxes
indiscriminately as of old; but apart from the tariff, the
importance of which is only secondarily fiscal, we limit
the subject of federal taxation to a very few articles of
widespread consumption. We no longer in our most advanced
states attempt in practice to levy a general property
tax, but are content, as is almost true in New York
to-day, with state taxes levied not on individuals, but on
inheritances and corporations. Finally, while in local
taxation we still hold to the theory of a general property
taxnin practice we are fast coming to the well nigh
exclusive taxation of real estate.
But whereas we are moving in the right direction in
these commonwealths where the conditions are ripe,
simply because the economic facts are too strong for the
law, the law still conforms to the old theory. And the
difficulty of altering the law is ascribable to the fact
that neither our statesmen nor our economists have yet
been able to frame a theory which will at once explain
the conditions and respond to the sense of justice in the
popular mind. Let us hope that when once we shall
have realized the true implications of this newer theory
which emphasizes the social aspects of economic law, we
shall be able to prove to the satisfaction of all that in
order to secure justice we do not need to impose a tax
which seeks equally to hit in first instance every individual


### ---Economics-1904-0-24.txt---
member of the community. We shall then grasp
the fact that while equality from the individual point of
view means equality as abstracted from class differentiation,
equality from the social point of view means
equality only within the class, and is compatible with
an ostensible inequality between the classes. For here
as elsewhere, all is not what it doth seem, and the
apparent original inequality, when subjected to the
crucible of social analysis and social process, resolves
itself into a higher equality.
In conclusion, then, let us not minimize the revolutionary
character of the general principle which is the
burden of my theme. I submit it indeed with diffidence,
but with a firm conviction that if true it is destined to
lead to important results. If the social aspect of economic
law is really as significant as I think it is, we
must rebuild large parts of our economic edifice. We
must recognize that the psychological school of economnics
has gone off on a wrong tack, not because they
emphasize psychology, but because their psychology is
not of the right kind; we shall have to confess that the
opposition between the cost theorists and the utility
theorists, is to a great extent needless; we shall have to
revise our attitude to the problems of international trade,
of private property, of the relations of labor and capital;
and above all, we shall be compelled to rewrite our
works on Taxation and Finance.
Let me trust, however, that there will be no misconception
of the real bearing of my contention. The subordination
of the individual to the social element in
economic life and law does not imply any depreciation
of the individual as such, nor does it mean that the ideal
polity of the future must resemble the crude socialism
that is so loudly proclaimed by some. For all human,
beings, after all, the goal of endeavor must be the perfection


### ---Economics-1904-0-25.txt---
and the fruition of those latent qualities and possibilities
that distinguish us from the brutes and that constitute
our personality. Moral development means selfdevelopment,
and progress can come only through freedom.
Individualism in this sense is the very goal of all
achievement.

We must, however, not forget that the individual has
become what he is largely through society. Let us remember
that side by side with the individual struggle
for existence, there has been the group struggle and
that, as has recently been pointed out, the mutual aid
within the group has been the very condition of the contest
between the groups. Let us remember that the individual
as he exists to-day has been hammered out by
society, that individual ethics is the result of social
ethics, and that individual progress is largely the consequence
of social progress.

Economics, politics and ethics are each of them a part
of the greater social science. In each of them we find
the universal problem of attaining unity in multiplicity.
The aim of economics is to show the reconciliation of
private wealth with public welfare; the object of politics
is to secure individual liberty through a free commonwealth;
the goal of ethics is to prove that individual
morality is in harmony with the very conception of the
universe. Economics shows how a prosperous individual
can come only through a prosperous society;
politics teaches how a free individual can persist only
in a free society; and ethics makes it clear how a perfect
individual can be conceived only as a constituent of
a perfect society. Prosperity, freedom, morality-all
alike are at bottom social conceptions. They can be
reached in practice only through a common striving
together; they can be comprehended in theory only
through an analysis which accentuates the social
element.
 ## Economics-1905-0


### ---Economics-1905-0-01.txt---
Forty years ago, the doctrine of free trade seemed to
be triumphant, alike in the judgments of thinkers and
in the policy of the leading countries. The school of
Adam Smith and Ricardo had swept the board in Great
Britain, and its conclusions, as set forth in John Stuart
Mill's Principles, were thought to represent the definitive
outcome of economic inquiry. Among these conclusions,
the one least open to doubt seemed to be that,
between nations as between individuals, free exchange
brought about the best adjustment of the forces of production;
and international free trade was regarded as
the one most potent means of increasing the efficiency
of labor. In legislation, the triumph seemed to be no
less assured. England, after a series of moves in the
direction of lower duties, had at last taken the sudden
plunge. to free trade in the dramatic repeal of the corn
laws in I 846. Not long after, France, by the commercial
treaty of i86o with England, had replaced the
old regime of rigid protection and prohibition by a system
of duties so moderate that the free trader might feel
that his ideal, if not quite attained, yet could not be
long delayed in complete realization. The treaty between
France and England was soon followed by others
of similar import between the various countries of
Europe, spreading over all the Continent a net-work of
reciprocal arrangements that greatly lowered the tariff
barriers in the civilized world. In the United States a
long period, from i846 to i86i, had witnessed a marked
relaxation of, the protective system; and if the civil war
had brought a return to high duties, this might be


### ---Economics-1905-0-02.txt---
ascribed to the financial exigencies of that crisis, and
might reasonably be expected before long to give way
once more to a moderate policy.
How different since then has been the course of events
from what was confidently expected by the economists
of i86o! Slowly but steadily the current has been reversed.
and country after country has joined the protectionist
ranks. The United States, so far from relaxing
the high duties imposed during the civil war, has
strengthened them and enlarged their range, and gradually
built up a protective system the like of which was
not dreamed of in earlier days. France, restive under
the treaty regime of low duties, finally put an end to it
in i88i, and then proceeded to build up once more a
system of high protection. Germany took her decisive
step in the same direction in i879, and thereafter proceeded
steadily to enlarge and elaborate her tariff barriers.
Austria and Italy followed suit, and Russia has
gone to the extreme in adopting protection. Even the
old strongholds of free trade have become difficult to
hold. Holland's latest tariff, while still disavowing deliberate
protection, yet levies duties which, if ostensibly
for financial yield, are inconsistent with a strict adherence
to free trade. The leading English colonies,
Canada and Australia, have ostentatiously abandoned
that principle. England herself is in the throes of a
discussion in which her policy of freedom, supposed to
have been settled once for all, is attacked with vigor and
effect; and who shall say what is to be the outcome of
that discussion?

Not less striking is the change in temper among economic
thinkers. The whole structure of economic
theory is undergoing revision. Many of the doctrines
of Adam Smith and Ricardo have no more than an historic


### ---Economics-1905-0-03.txt---
interest. It still remains to be seen, as to this
larger discussion, just what the outcome will be in the
reconstruction of economic teaching as a whole; but it
is clear that, so far as the doctrine of free trade is concerned,
enthusiasm has been supplanted by cautious
weighing or open doubt. Half a century ago those
Germ~an and French writers who -advocated free trade
were certain that the future was theirs: protection was
the waning doctrine, and its advocates were hopelessly
reactionary. At present, certainly in Germany and
more or less in other countries, a large school has just
the opposite feeling. Free trade would seem to be the
waning doctrine. Laissez-faire and freedom have had
their day, and the future belongs to the conscious direction
of industry at the hands of the state. International
free trade has no more sanctity or authority than any
other part of the obsolete system of natural liberty, and
the advantages or disadvantages of tariff restrictions are
to be coolly weighed for each country by itself, in the
light of specific experience.
In view of this unmistakable change in the general
attitude, even the most convinced free-trader must feel
called on to reconsider the question, and weigh once
more the arguments for protection. Some such task I
propose for myself to-night: not indeed the formidable
one of going over the entire subject afresh, but that of
passing in review some of the argDuments most commonly
heard, and more especially those of which most is
heard in our own country.
First of all, something may be said as to those aspects
of the controversy of which most is heard in popular
discussion in this country. Here, as it happens, the situation
is comparatively simple; for there is perhaps a
nearer approach to a consensus of opinion on current


### ---Economics-1905-0-04.txt---
popular arguments regarding protection than on any
subject in the wide field of economics. As to most of
the familiar arguments for protection, either all the economists
are hopelessly in the wrong, or else the protectionist
reasoning is hopelessly bad.
The mercantilist view of international trade, exploded
though it has been time and again, has a singularly
tenacious hold. Even among the most intelligent
writers in financial journals, the familiar attitude is that
of rejoicing in a gain of exports, regretting a gain of imports:
rejoicing in an inflow of specie, bewailing its outflow;
so familiar that probably the immense majority of
persons who have never been systematically trained in
economics take this point of view as a matter of course.
Now, in a country whose monetary system is top-heavy,
the relation of imports to exports may not automatically
adjust itself without causing trouble. But the difficulty
in such case, if there be one, is in the circulating medium,
and presents questions of monetary reform, not any
problem as to the gain or loss from international trade.
No doubt there are some other problems of real complexity
in the relation of exports and imports. A country
whose exports grow rapidly and are readily absorbed
by foreign countries, may thereby secure its imports on
more advantageous terms. This has probably been the
situation of the United States, especially during the last
thirty years. On the other hand, a country which depends
on international trade for obtaining commodities
essential for its economic well-being and not procurable
at home, must look to its exports as the means whereby
these essentials shall be secured; and such a country
must have a watchful eye on the continuance and growth
of its exports. This has doubtless been the situation of
England during the last thirty years. But these are


### ---Economics-1905-0-05.txt---
aspects of the theory of international trade quite beyond
the ken of those who expound the virtues of protection
to the general public. Here the exports are not regarded
as the means of buying the imports: the exports
are good per se, the imports bad per se. We may apply to
this sort of talk a well-known passage of Adam Smith's:
".Some of the best English writers upon commerce set
out with observing that the wealth of a country consists,
not in its gold and silver only, but in its lands, houses,
and consumable goods of all sorts. In the course of their
reasoning, however, the lands, houses, and consumable
goods, seem to slip out of their memory; and the strain
of their argument frequently supposes that all wealth
consists in gold and silver, and that to multiply these
metals is the great object of national industry and commerce.
"

So the every-day writers on foreign trade would admit
at the outset that its only object is the same as that of
all labor and trade: to increase the sum of enjoyable
commodities, and to do so by getting the imports we
consume, not by selling the exports we get rid of. But
as their reasoning proceeds, the consumable commodities
somehow slip out of their memory, and all their
talk is of gaining by sales and of losing by purchase, of
the great glories of swelling exports, and the ill omen
or domestic industry from growing imports.
Other ancient fallacies have a no less tenacious hold.
We hear it proclaimed ad nauseam that protected industries
give the farmer a home market; as if there
were created a new and additional market, and not a
mere substitute for the foreign market. It is part of
the same ancient fallacy that the farmer's " surplus ' is
talked of as if it must be so much waste unless legislation
provided a market for it. We all know how Adain
Smith, in the days when the theory of international


### ---Economics-1905-0-06.txt---
trade was in the making, accepted the notion of a surplus;
we all know, too, how easy it was for later writers
to refute Adam Smith out of his own mouth. We are
constantly told that a tax on imports acts as a burden
on foreigners, not on the domestic consumer; though
here, as in other parts of the controversy, the proposition
is more often an implied premise than an explicit
conclusion. Not least, how incessant is the blatant
assumption that all prosperity is due to the protective
system, and that disaster must ensue from any mitigation
of its rigor. With some of these arguments, no
doubt a nice analysis would bring into view certain con
ditions under which a measure of plausibility, nay of
real validity, attaches to them. Thus, there are conditions
under which taxes on commodities are borne in
part, occasionally even in whole, by the producer and
not by the consumer. These are exceptional conditions,
and they are as likely to appear under internal
taxes as under customs duties. But such exceptions
and qualifications, found for every social and economic
principle by the discriminating thinker, are not among
the subjects of every-day debate. There we find the
simple fundamental principle ignored, and the baldest
of errors repeated. No doubt it is inevitable, in the
popular discussion of economic problems, that arguments
of the crudest sort should come to the fore. But
I confess to a sense of humiliation when our leading
statesmen turn to reasoning easy of refutation by every
youth who has had decent instruction in elementary
economics.

I do not wish to linger on these commonplaces; yet, at
the risk of being tedious, will turn for a moment to that
phase of the controversy which for near half a century
has been most conspicuous in our country-the effect of


### ---Economics-1905-0-07.txt---
protection on wages. For years and years it has been
dinned-into the ears of the American people that high
wages are the result of protection, or at least dependent
on protection; that the maintenance of a high standard
of living depends on the barrier against competing.
laborers of lower price, and that the workingman has a
special and peculiar interest in the system of high
duties. And yet I apprehend that here, too, the judgment
of the economists would be with virtual unanimity
the other way. The general range of wages in the
United States was not created by protection and is not
dependent on protection. The common talk about the
sacredness of protection as a means of uplifting the
workingman is mere claptrap.
No doubt there would be some difference in the way
in which the economists stated the grounds of this conclusion.
The theory of wages is one of their debatable
fields, and some points are still to be settled. But for
the purposes of the present discussion, these differences
would not be material. By and large it would be agreed
all hands that the fundamental cause of high wages
is large productiveness of labor, and that so long as
such productiveness exists a large reward to workmen
will follow. The higher range of wages in the United
States is due to the country's rich natural resources, and
to the energy and intelligence with which these have
been utilized. It may be that in certain directions the
utilization of its resources has in some degree been hastened
or made more effective by protection,-of this more
hereafter. It may be that in other directions this utilization
has been retarded and lamed by protection. But in
either case it is beyond doubt that, whether we had had
in the past complete free trade or the most unqualified
protection, production would have been more generous


### ---Economics-1905-0-08.txt---
in the United States than in European countries, and
wages higher; and it is no less certain that, whichever
system we shall have in the future, we shall retain these
same advantageous conditions.
But while the generally higher range of wages in the
United States has nothing to do with protection, and
probably not much to do with international free trade
either, it does not follow that some among our laborers
may not be dependent on the tariff barriers for their
present wages in their present occupations. So far as
the industries in which they are employed are really
dependent on protection, the high wages paid in these
particular cases are also dependent on protection. Looking
at the dominant and normal conditions of industry
in this country, we find high money wages and at the
same time low prices of goods. Labor is efficient and
goods are produced abundantly; therefore, though the
goods are sold at low prices, the gross money yield is
large, the money returns are high, and high money
wages are paid. But in those industries in which labor
is less efficient, and goods are not produced in abundance,
the gross money yield can not be high unless competing
products are kept out or handicapped. In this sense,
and to this extent, the maintenance of high wages in
some industries depends on the maintenance of protection.


To say this is to say that here, as in all cases of
vested interests, whether of labor or of capital, serious
problems present themselves to the legislator. The
protectionists naturally exaggerate the extent to which
industries are in fact dependent on this system, and indeed
go to the absurd extreme of maintaining that all
successful industry and all high wages depend on their
panacea, The free-traders belittle it, and often fail to


### ---Economics-1905-0-09.txt---
see that in so doing they minimize also those consequences
of protection which they think bad. The diversion
of labor and capital to less productive channels
-the ill effect which is the essence of the free-trade
contention-is precisely in proportion to the range of
industries in which the maintenance of high wages depends
on protection. No doubt also the free-traders
do not squarely face the difficulties of a transition to
their system: the slowness with which capital and labor
would have to be withdrawn from protected industries,
and the prolonged period of unsettlement which would
have to be undergone before final readjustment.
Before leaving this part of the controversy, I will
note one other aspect of it,-one that touches our pressing
social problems. The industries in which labor is
efficient, output is large, and wages are high, are by no
means solely the agricultural industries. A great
range of manufactures are of this sort; and these are
our most characteristic manufactures. They are the
manufactures employing workmen who are alert, intelligent,
and what is popularly called high-priced. They
are the manufactures in which a larger output per unit
of labor and capital comes from ingenious machinery,
effective organization, efficient labor, nicely adjusted
product. Side by side with these are others of a different
type, in which the laborer is called on chiefly
for the monotonous repetition of the simplest manual
tasks, and in which even an ignorant man, or woman,
or even child, can be easily taught the task. Here the
temptation is inevitably to seek for cheap labor. The
earth has been scoured to find docile, ignorant, pliable
labor. which shall do for us our Helot's tasks. Inpouring
immigrants by the million find work of this kind.
They get wages which are lifted by the surrounding


### ---Economics-1905-0-10.txt---
economic forces somewhat above the level of similar
wages in Europe, but are lifted by no means up to the
full American range. They are in a class by themselves,
cut off in large degree from the general influences
of the country. Their children, indeed, commonly
feel these influences. They go to the public
schools, learn the American standards and ways, and
struggle with more or less success to rise to a higher
stratum. But this depletion of the lower ranks is more
than made good by the increasing arrivals of new
shoals of immigrants. Thus we have, perhaps not permanently,
but as a continuing part of our present
social system, a vast mass of human beings doing for
low wages work that is dull, monotonous, and according
to our standards ill-paid.
Now I am by no means disposed to assert that the
protected industries are identical with the industries
employing labor of this sort. Not a few of the protected
industries call for labor of the alert and intelligent kind.
Many industries which have nothing to do with protection
call for the dull, weary, unskilled work. Such is
the mining of anthracite coal, whose peculiar conditions
have of late been so conspicuously brought into
notice; such is the cotton manufacture in the South,
where during the last twenty years a vein of this lowlying
human material has been unexpectedly discovered
and exploited. But a good share of the protected manufactures
are in this class. Large parts of the textile
manufactures in the Atlantic States belong here, and
are in marked contrast, -to give one example,-to such
an industry as the shoe manufacture. I cannot but believe
that by increasing the opportunities for the utilization
of labor of this sort -the protective system has
added to our social and political difficulties. The safe


### ---Economics-1905-0-11.txt---
absorption and remaking of these unskilled and uneducated
masses is largely a question of degree. A certain
amount we can make over; too many of them would
swamp our institutions. No thinking man can view
without concern the rapid increase in their numbers, or
believe that it is for our social or moral advantage to
add by legislative policy to the range of industries which
create a demand for them.
I pass now to more difficult matters: to some phases
of the controversy concerning which economists are
much less in accord, and on which something is to be
said on both sides. And here I will begin with two
lines of reasoning that are not commonly considered together,
but which seem to me to involve essentially the
same question of principle. One of them is the argumnent
against dumping; the other is the argument for
the protection of agricultural products against the competition
of new countries.

"Dumping " I take to mean the disposal of goods
in foreign countries at less than normal price. It can
take place, as a long-continued state of things, only
where there is some diversion of industry from the usual
conditions of competition. It may be the result of an
export bounty, enabling goods to be sold in foreign
countries at a lower price than at home. It may be the
result of a monopoly or effective combination, which is
trying to keep prices within a country above the competitive
point. Such a combination may find that its
whole output can not be disposed of at these prices, and
may sell the surplus in a free market at anything it will
fetch,-always provided it yields the minimum of what
Professor Marshall happily calls " prime cost."
Now, if this sort of thing goes on indefinitely, I confess
that I am unable to see why it can be thought a


### ---Economics-1905-0-12.txt---
source of loss to the dumped country; unless, indeed we
throw over all our accepted reasoning on international
trade and take the crude protectionist view in to/o. If
one country chooses to present goods to another for less
than cost; or lets its industrial organization get into
such condition that a monopoly can levy tribute at
home,,-and is then enabled, or compelled by its own interests,
to present foreign consumers with goods for less
than cost,-why should the second country object? Is
not the consequence precisely the same, so far as that
other country is concerned, as if the cost of the goods
had been lowered by improvements in production or
transportation, or by any method whatever? Unless
there is something harmful per se in cheap supply from
foreign parts, why is this kind of cheap supply to be
condemned ?

The answer to this question seems to me to depend
on the qualification stated above-if this sort of thing
goes on indefinitely. Suppose it goes on for a considerable
time, and yet is sure to cease sooner or later.
There would then be a displacement of industry in the
dumped country, with its inevitable difficulties for labor
and capital; yet later, when the abnormal conditions
ceased, a return of labor and capital to their former
occupations, again with all the difficulties of transition.
It is the temporary character of dumping that gives
valid ground for trying to check it.
A striking case of this sort has always seemed to me
to be that of the European export bounties on sugar,
which for so long a period caused continental sugar to
be dumped in Great Britain. These bounties were not
established of set purpose. They grew unexpectedly,
in the leading countries, out of a clumsy system of internal
taxation. They imposed heavy burdens on the


### ---Economics-1905-0-13.txt---
exchequer, as well as oil the domestic consumer, in the
bounty-giving countries; and they were upheld by a
senseless spirit of international jealousy. Repeated
attempts to get rid of them by international conferences
showed that the cheap supply to the British consumer,
and the embarrassment of the West Indian planter and
the British refiner, rested not on the solid basis of perManently
improved production, but on the uncertain
support of troublesome legislation. It might well be
argued that these conditions would come to end sooner
or later. The longer the end was postponed, the worse
was the present dislocation of industry and the more
difficult the eventual return to a settled state of things.
No doubt these were not the only considerations that in
fact led Great Britain, the one great dumping-ground,
to serve notice that she would impose import duties
equal to the bounties, unless these were stopped.. Perhaps
this decisive step would have been taken even if it
had appeared that the bounties were to continue as a
permanent factor in the sugar trade. But it is in their
probably temporary character that the sober economist
finds justification for the policy that led to their abolition.
At all events there is tenable ground for arguing
that Great Britain, in causing them to be stamped out,
acted not only in the interest of the much-abused consumers
of sugar on the Continent, but in the permanent
interests of her own industrial organization.
The other familiar case of dumping is that of the
monopoly. Here, too, it may be maintained with much
show of reason that the diversion from the normal conditions
of industry is but temporary. Can any country
be persuaded in the long run that it is for its advantage
to support or aid, by protective duties, or by any other
method, a monopoly which mulcts the domestic consumer


### ---Economics-1905-0-14.txt---
and thereby is enabled to make presents to the
foreigner? Yet the strength of vested interests, the
curious conservatism of party feeling, persistent sophistry
about giving employment to labor and turning the
wheels of industry, may keep the practice going for a
long period. Any measures that would bring it to an
early end should be welcome alike for the country that
dumps and for that into which there is dumping.'
I turn now to the other phase of this same question.
The competition of the United States and of other newly
opened countries has depressed the prices of various articles
of food in Europe; has restricted, or threatened to
restrict, the volume of agricultural production; and has
caused an increasing drift of population to manufacturing
industries. But these conditions, it is maintained,
are but temporary. The new countries will not remain
new. Their population grows rapidly, and their fresh
lands are fast being absorbed. It is to be expected that
sooner or later their numbers will be increased, and their
own food supply increasingly drawn on, until they have
no food for export. The countries to which this food
supply had been sent, and whose industries had been adjusted
on that basis, will find inevitable readjustment to
1 No doubt in weighing the advisability of such measures, it would
be necessary, and at the same time extremely difficult, to ascertain
whether the dumped article really was exported at an abnormally low
price. It is familiar knowledge that the Steel Corporation, for example,
is selling some articles for export at less than the domestic price.
But it is quite possible that the export price, while less than the domestic
price, is not really below the level of normal cost. So much
the worse, doubtless, for the consumer at home; but this is not a
matter that concerns the foreigner, who buys the steel at no more
and no less than a reasonable figure. It seems to be at least doubtful
whether the foreign sales are in fact likely to be made for any con -
siderable time at a price below the long-run cost of production. If
not, the question which presents itself is the ordinary one of protection,
not the peculiar one of a temporary dislocation of industry.


### ---Economics-1905-0-15.txt---
the old basis. First a large part of their population is
transferred from agricultural to manufacturing industries,
and then must be transferred back to agriculture
again. Each process of transition is necessarily slow
and possibly painful, and the suffering and losses outweigh
the temporary benefit during the comparatively
brief period of cheaper food supply. Is it not wiser to
protect agriculture for awhile, and keep industry in its
even and permanent course ?
Here again the answer turns on the temporary nature
of the situation. If it were clear that the cheaper food
supplies would cease to be available after ten years, or
twenty years, there would seem to be good grounds for
resisting this American invasion. The longer the period
over which the new conditions are likely to last,
and the more uncertain their end or the stages by which
their end will be reached, the weaker is the case for resistance.
Now, all the indications are that the relations
between new countries and old countries, as they have
developed during the last half-century, will endure for
a long period,-a period not to be measured by years or
decades, perhaps not by generations. Many have been
the books and pamphlets published during the last
twenty years, foretelling that the end was near, and
that the opening of new sources of supply had ceased.
Yet the building of new railways and the general advance
in transportation, as well as the discovery of regions
not before thought available, have accentuated the
present situation of the modern world, and have postponed
to an indefinite future the predicted reaction. To
attempt now to make provision for such an indefinite
future is at the least very doubtful policy. What will
be the relation, a century hence, between the old countries
and the countries now new; what will then be the


### ---Economics-1905-0-16.txt---
sources of food supply for the civilized world; what will
be the process by which the old countries fall back
again to their own resources,-if indeed they do fall
back,-these are questions which the statesmen of the
present day had best leave to the distant successors who
may eventually have to deal with them.
A curious argument, connected with this set of considerations,
has been advanced by one of the most distinguished
economists of our time. A revival of the
more extreme phase of the Malthusian reasoning, it
looks to the influence of more abundant food supplies on
the growth of population and the standard of living.
Briefly, the reasoning is that cheaper food will simply
cause an increase of numbers, and a lowering of the
standard of living. When food thereafter becomes
dearer, either in occasional seasons of dearth or-as is
supposed to be probable-as a permanent matter in the
not distant future, there will be nothing to fall back on.
The larger population which the temporary period of
plenty had called out, will suffer the more when the
conditions of limited supply return. This is just what
Malthus maintained a century ago. But, it is also just
what a century of economic and social history has disproved.
I am by no means of the opinion that the century'
s history has disproved the general Malthusian
theorem,-the tendency to pressure and the need of
restraint. But the particular corollary as to the inexpediency
of cheaper food seems to be quite untenable.
The causes of restraint or lack of restraint in multiplication
are much more complex than it assumes. Notable
among them are the advance of education and intelligence,
the nature of the industrial organization, the desire
and opportunity to rise in the social scale, which
Malthus himself believed to be the vis medica/rix of


### ---Economics-1905-0-17.txt---
the community. Where the conditions of intelligence
and ambition are present, material well-being has a
favorable effect of a cumulative kind: a fairly high
standard of living, once set going, tends not only to
maintain itself, but to rise. Something of a lift miust
be given before an independent upward movement can
maintain itself. The general rise in the comfort of living
which the leading countries have secured in the last
half-century, and which has been due largely to cheaper
supplies of food and materials from the new countries,
has served to give the needed lift.
I turn now to that course of reasoning which has long
been among the economists the most effective in favor of
protection; the argument for protection to young industries.
It goes by other names and uses other phrases.
It is sometimes called educating or nurturing protection.
In popular controversy, it takes the form of the contention
that protection, while it may raise temporarily the
prices of the goods protected, in the long run lowers
them. Throughout, it rests on the assumption that a
country does not secure without conscious effort or considerable
sacrifice those industries which in the long run
are most advantageous for it.
Let us consider first the probable range in the application
of the principle. It is commonly stated to be
applicable only to manufactured goods, not to raw materials,
-including under the term " raw materials "
most agricultural products. Such was the view of
List, the German economist, who has given the most
elaborate and perhaps the most effective statement of
the argument. Indeed, it is only from this point of
view that there is any strong distinction between duties
on manufactures and those on raw materials. No doubt,
something may be said, by way of special objection to


### ---Economics-1905-0-18.txt---
taxes on raw materials. that they accumulate as profits
are heaped up on them in the successive stages through
which the commodity passes before reaching the consumers'
hands. But this makes only a difference of
degree, and perhaps not a great difference of degree,
between raw materials and most manufactures;
whereas, so far as the young industries argument goes,
there is a difference in kind. Nature has settled what
sorts of raw materials a country is fitted to produce. No
encouragement from protective duties, for example, can
so stimulate the growth of forests in the United States
as to bring us in the end cheaper timber. No such
stimulus call cause the climate of the country to become
better adapted for wool growing, or give it the peculiar
advantages which the interior of Australia has for this
form a pastoral industry; or make Louisiana as well
fitted for growing cane sugar as Cuba.
Nevertheless, it must be admitted that, even so far as
this special argument for protection is concerned, there
may be sometimes as good reason for duties on raw materials
as oil manufactures. Mining operations usually
involve an initial stage of experiment and uncertainty,
and almost always call for a heavy investment of fixed
capital. The history of the iron industry in the
United States and Germany, and possibly that of the
copper industry in the United States, suggest at least
the possibility that a stage of artificial and expensive
stimulus may be followed by an eventual attainment of
developed and cheapened production. Agriculture
seems to present such possibilities in less degree; pastoral
industry still less; and forestry least of all.
Unlike most other parts of the controversy between
free-trade and protection, the young industries
arguments connects itself with few other questions of


### ---Economics-1905-0-19.txt---
economic theory, and is to be considered chiefly in the
light of specific experience. The benefits of imports
and exports, the relations of domestic and foreign industry,
wages, foreign cheap labor, surplus products,
over-production, dumping,-these topics at once spread
over into the general field of economics. Not only do
theyThus enlarge, but they can be disposed of chiefly
by that mode of general reasoning from comparatively
simple premises which still remain the most valuable
tool at the disposal of the economist. But whether
protection to young industries will or will not have
good effects, is simply a question of probability for the
given case. Precisely the opposite result from protection
has not infrequently been discovered or supposed
to be discovered. It has been said that, so far from
leading to improvements and eventual cheapening, it
leads to the retention of antiquated and inefficient
wages of production and so to continued enhancement
of prices. There is good ground for believing that the
long continued protective regime in France during the
first half of the nineteenth century had ill results of
this kind. One of our ardent free-traders, the late
David A. Wells, repeatedly maintained that the same
consequences had appeared in the United States. His
conclusion may have been justified by what happened
during the period of abnormal industrial conditions
that followed the Civil War; yet I doubt whether the
experience of the United States as a whole supports it.
The truth is that either result may ensue. Among
an active and enterprising people the diversion of industry
into new channels may lead to progress, improvement,
and eventual gain; whereas in a timid and
stagnant people the stimulus of competition from
abroad may be necessary to rouse them, to their best efforts.


### ---Economics-1905-0-20.txt---
The problem of protection to young industries
thus offers an especial field for the inductive and historical
method in its stricter sense,-the patient investigation
of particular cases, and the possible final
construction of anl edifice of truth, by the slow gathering
of fragments of knowledge.
FTor the pnrpose of aiding legislation in our own day,
however, investigation of this sort must be confined to
modern experience; the experience, say, of the nineteenth
century. Investigations as to earlier periods, as
to the industrial regime of the Middle Ages, the system
of Colbert, the early protective policy of Great Britain,
the paternalism of the rulers of Brandenburg and Prussia,
will teach us little for the problems of the present.
The value and interest of such investigations are not to
be denied. We have shed certain notions of the earlier
economists as to the necessary harmfulness or futility of
the conscious direction of industry, and know that we
have still much to learn about the causes of progress in the
past. But modern conditions differ radically from those
preceding the nineteenth century, and have changed
fundamentally in the last fifty years. Technical education
has been so improved and diff used as to make
immensely easier the adoption anywhere of a new process.
All the means of communicating knowledge,
from the printing press to the telegraph,. serve to spread
rapidly information about changes in the arts. Restrictions
on the sale or export of mnaehinery have disappeared.
Capital is abundant, and is constantly and
eagerly seeking fresh employment. There is no need
of further enumeration; it is obvious that the conditions
are very different from those that had to be faced by the
undertaker of the seventeenth and eighteenth century,
even of the first half of the nineteenth. Whatever we


### ---Economics-1905-0-21.txt---
learn of his troubles and obstacles can tell us little as to
the extent to which his successor in modern times needs
the prop of legislative aid in new ventures.
Looking now at modern experience in protection to
young industries, what result do we find? The answer,
alas, is not certain. Sometimes we seem to find a degree
of success, sometimes of failure. The besetting difficulty
of all purely inductive inquiry in the doings of
man is ever present. We can not isolate causes. We
can not apply protection to a country, and make sure
that everything else remains unchanged. A protective
duty may be followed by an increase of domestic production,
by a new and independent industry, by an
eventual benefit to the community in the way of cheaper
commodities; but the question always will remain
whether other causes have been at work, and whether
the same result would not have ensued without the
tariff in favor of the young industry.
Contrast the history of Germany and of France. For
the whole period up to i86o, France had a restrictive
regime of the greatest severity. Yet I have seen no
evidence adduced that, during that period of rapid industrial
advance in the world at large, any' gain was secured
by France in the way of successfully establishing
an industry that was able to hold its own without aid.
In Germany, on the other hand, the trend of opinion
among competent observers seems to be that, at least
during the second third of the century, the tariff policy
of the Zollverein, though much more moderate than
that of France during the same period, nurtured German
manufacture to advantage. The establishment of free
trade within Germany by this beneficent customs union
opened great possibilities of internal growth, which were


### ---Economics-1905-0-22.txt---
more easily turned into realities by a period of shelter
from foreign, especially English, competition. During
the last third of the century, Germany's industrial
growth has been one of the remarkable phenomena of
our time; but it began under the moderate protectionist
regime of the Zollverein, and, whether or no promoted
also by the accentuated protection that began in I879,
has certainly been much affected by the other factors
also, to some of which I shall presently refer. In the
United States we find similarly conflicting evidence.
Some researches of my own have led me to believe that,
on the whole, the first growth of manufactures in this
country, in the early years of the nineteenth century,
was advantageously promoted by restrictions on competing
imports. As we come nearer to the present time,
the case iii favor of protection becomes more and more
doubtful. In the policy of extreme and all-embracing
protection which has been gradually built up since the
Civil War, it would have been surprising indeed if we
had not scored a few hits. Where you send innumerable
shots promiscuously in a given direction, some few
of them are likely to hit the mark. But specific and
unbiassed inquiry on those points is sadly needed, and
offers a promising opportunity for scholarly investigation.
It is obvious that there has been not only an
enormous growth of manufacturing industry, but a great
improvement in methods of production and a growing
independence of foreign competition. How far this
gain has been carried to the point which proves that
the community is now better off than it would be if it
had depended on foreign supply; and how far such a
gain, further, may have been due to causes quite independent
of encouragement in the way of protection,-
these are questions which certainly can not be disposed


### ---Economics-1905-0-23.txt---
of without much painstaking and unbiased inquiry,
and for which even such inquiry very likely would yield
no clear-cut answer.
Our conclusions as to the general validity of the argument
for protection to young industries thus have an
uncertain ring. Yet it must be added that while such
protection can not be proved useless, there is at least one
striking phenomenon which proves it to be not indispensable.
That phenomenon is found in our own
country. Here we have seen, under a regime of the
most absolute free trade, the gradual and steady growth
of manufactures in communities that a few decades ago
were exclusively agricultural. In our Southern states,
the cotton manufacture has grown and prospered in
face of the competition of the established industry of
New England. It found in the South advantages of
situation, and a labor supply which proved amenable to
profitable exploitation. But these advantages could
not be utilized without an initial period of experiment
and uncertainty, during which the older industry had
all the advantages against which protection is supposed
to be necessary. Even more instructive is the transformation
of the great Central region,-the states north of
the Ohio and east of the Mississippi. Here we have
seen, under a regime of complete free trade within the
country, the steady growth of manufactures. Where
the field was favorable for a new industry, whether from
rich natural resources, from advantage in location, or
from ingenuity and enterprise among the leaders of industry
and the rank and file, there the industry has
expanded and flourished, unchecked by the competing
establishments of the older states. Some of the industries
that so sprang up in the Central region have
been of the kind that felt the stimulus of protection


### ---Economics-1905-0-24.txt---
against international competition. Some have been
quite independent of this stimulus, the question being
not whether they would spring up within the country,
but where within the country,-whether along the seaboard
or in the interior. In either case, the full competition
of the older regions of our own country has
been felt by the newer regions. The diversification of
the newer regions has nevertheless proceeded smoothly
and steadily. That diversification continues and will
continue, notwithstanding the most absolute free trade
throughout our own borders. No artificial fostering as
against the manufactures of the East has been possible:
though, if possible, it would doubtless have been asked.
Yet the growth of manufactures 'in the Central region
has been perhaps the most striking change in the industrial
structure of the country during the last generation.


These familiar facts must make us hesitate before ascribing
to legislative interposition too much effect on
the development of new industries or on the general
course of economic progress. I have already referred to
the difficulty of disentangling the complex forces that
bear on economic progress, and will not pretend to offer
anything in the way of proof for what I have further to
offer as to the relative weight of different factors.
Briefly stated, my belief is that the general structure
and spirit of the social body are much more important
than specific encouragement to this or that industry,
Any detailed statement of the grounds of this opinion
would carry us into fields much more speculative than
those which have been considered in the preceding
pages; and it must suffice to illustrate rather than support
it from a brief conisderation of some aspects of
social and economic history.


### ---Economics-1905-0-25.txt---
Consider first the case of England. Clearly several
causes contributed to the remarkable economic advance
of that country during the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries. Her insular position preserved her from the
wars which devastated the Continent. Her indented
coast cheapened internal transportation from an early
date. Her great mineral resources supplied the foundations
of the modern workshop. The protective system
of older days is supposed to have nurtured her industries
until they became independent,-with how great effect,
is the debatable question. But most important of all
has been the atmosphere of freedom and the clear avenue
to glittering success which has been open to all who
were capable and strong. Political freedom came first,
and soon was supplemented by industrial freedom.
Hence the all-pervading spirit of ambition, resource,
enterprise. To this spirit a stimulus of incalcuable
strength has been given by the curious development of
the British social hierarchy. Nowhere has the aristocracy
held its place so strongly in the esteem of the rest
of the community, and nowhere has admission to that
aristocracy been more free to the successful. The rich
merchant, manufacturer, banker, mounts readily on the
social ladder. Given plenty of riches, a little time, and
he or his descendants become associates of peers, very
likely themselves become peers. In the eighteenth century
Adam Smith, remarking on the differences between
England and France, mentioned France as a country
where trade is in disgrace, and England as one where it
is highly respected. The materialism of the British
aristocracy and the snobbishness of British society have
long been topics for the satirist. But materialism and
snobbishness have enlisted the strongest of social


### ---Economics-1905-0-26.txt---
motives, the undying love of distinction, in the direction
of economic initiative and varied development.
Factors of the same kind have been powerful in our
own country. Every career and every degree of success
have been open to all; and open not only under the law,
but under the mobile conditions of a thoroughly democratic
community. The most obvious avenue to distinction
has been the attainment of wealth; a state of
things by no means of unmixed advantage, but with unmistakable
effect on industrial progress. Large enterprises,
whether in trade, manufactures, or transportation,
have long enlisted the most capable intellects of the
country. Every opportunity for the conduct of business
on a large scale has been eagerly scanned with keen
eyes by the captains of industry. Add to this, the early
development of a high degree of mechanical skill and
ingenuity, and natural resources which are varied and
abundant to an unusual degree, and you have conditions
under which legislative stimulus is at best of secondary
importance. The evidence seems to me conclusive
that the United States, under any tariff system,
would have become a country with varied industries and
with highly developed manufactures. The protective
duties have only affected the degree and the direction of
that development.

Still another factor deserves to be noted. Not only
the spirit of freedom and enterprise within the community
has its effect, but that spirit with reference to other
communities also. The political position of a country
and its martial success seem to have a reflex effect on
the industrial success of its citizens in time of peace.
Here the recent development of Germany is apposite.
Her industrial advance during the last thirty years is
one of the striking phenomena of our time, and leads


### ---Economics-1905-0-27.txt---
naturally to speculation as to its causes. No doubt these
causes are varied, as in all such cases. The thorough
organization of popular education and of scientific education
is one cause. The stimulating effect of free trade
within the country, as established by the Zollverein
since i834, is another: though this gain had been enjoyed
by France throughout the nineteenth century, and
by England for centuries before. Much is due to the
whole change in the political and social atmosphere
which came with the crumbling of petty absolutism, and
which was consummated with the foundation of the German
Empire. But to all this must be added the new
spirit which came over the country after the war of i870.
Germany emerged from the conflict with a new sense of
strength and confidence. The new feeling communicated
itself to the field of peaceful industry. Vigor, enterprise,
and boldness showed themselves. Large enterprises
in new fields were launched and successfully conducted,
and great captains of industry came to the fore.
A spirit of conquest in all directions seems to have spread
through the people, bred or at least nurtured by the
great military conquest of the Franco-German war.
Is it fanciful to suppose that consequences of the
same sort have appeared in other countries also after
victorious wars? England emerged from the Napoleonic
wars with a great feeling of pride and power.
She alone had never yielded to the great conqueror.
The period which followed was that of her most sure
and rapid economic advance. She then established the
hegemony in the industry of the civilized world which
she maintained through the century. The northern
part of the United States, after the Civil War, felt a
similar impulse. That struggle had been on a greater
scale than was dreamed of at the outset, and its outcome


### ---Economics-1905-0-28.txt---
proved the existence of unexpected power and resource.
It is probably no accident that the ensuing years
showed a spirit of daring in industry, and sudden and
successful activity in commercial enterprises.
No one is more opposed than I am to all that goes
with war and militarism. It is with reluctance that I
bring myself to admit that the same spirit which leads
to success in war, may also lead to success in the arts
of peace. Yet so it seems to be. Men being what
they are, nothing rouses them so thoroughly as fighting.
The temper which then pervades a community,
communicates itself by imitation and emulation, and
shows itself in all the manifestations of its activity. A
great war lifts the minds of men to large undertakings,
and takes its place with other factors in stimulating
the full exercise of the powers of every individual.
We are in danger of straying far from our subject.
Yet the digressions to which the argument for protection
to young industries has led may serve to enforce
one conclusion to which the consideration of the whole
free-trade controversy must lead the patient inquirer:
namely, that the effects of tariff legislation are commonly
much over-estimated. Difficult as it may be to
separate the causes of industrial growth and to measure
their relative weight, it seems to me clear that the factors
are many and various. 'In any larger survey, the
effects ascribable to a protective system, either for particular
industries or for general economic growth, are
among the subordinate phenomena, and far from having
that transcendent importance so often proclaimed
by its ardent advocates.
I turn now to an opinion, or point of view, to which
reference was made in the opening paragraphs of this
paper: the opinion that after all on our subject there is


### ---Economics-1905-0-29.txt---
no fundamental principle. A set of writers, especially
among contemporary German economists, take what
purports to be a severely judicial attitude. In their view
there is no established theory. and no reason for ascribing
greater validity to the doctrine of free-trade
than to that of protection. It is all a matter of advantage
-or disadvantage in the given case. Some countries
may prove on inquiry to need free-trade, some
protection. A policy of opportunism is the only sensible
one, and the controversies about theories of international
exchange turn onl barren abstractions, which
do not touch the concrete facts of industry.
For myself, I confess to little patience with this attitude.
It assumes to be large-minded and judicial, and
a certain tinge of contempt for the old fashioned
theorists often goes with it. Yet in truth it rests, I can
not but suspect, on inability or unwillingness to follow
the threads of intricate reasoning. No doubt it is true
that the concrete circumstances of a country must be
examined and considered before we apply to it a given
policy. But it is none the less essential to make up
our minds as to the principles on which our policy
should rest. No doubt it is especially true that, in
weighing the chance of the advantageous application
of protection to young industries, the actual conditions
of each case and the prospects of success should be
carefully studied. But it is none the less necessary to
reflect what are the foundations and limitations of such
protection, and what are the real tests of success. On
all such questions of principle, we often find a sad lack
of clear-cut reasoning among our German colleagues.
This defect does not show itself solely in the protective
controversy. It appears in almost every part of
the economic field, as soon as the more difficult problems


### ---Economics-1905-0-30.txt---
are touched. In the theory of value, of distribution, of
prices and the value of money, as well as in that of
international trade, there is in many current manuals
and text-books a pseudo-judicial attitude, which admits
some merit in this position as well as in its opposite,
opines that such a view must indeed be considered but
must not be pressed too far, and such further doublefacing
expressions, which end in leaving the reader
quite in the dark as to the author's conclusions as to
the heart of the matter in hand.
It is easy to account for this stage of thought, especially
among the writers of the second rank. In many
directions economic theory is being re-fashioned, and on
many topics there is not yet a consensus of opinion. At
least, there does not appear to be such a consensus;
though the differences among economic thinkers on the
large questions of principle are much less fundamental
than they are sometimes made to appear. Yet it is not
to be denied that on some deep-reaching topics, especially
in the theory of distribution, economic theory is
now in a stage of transition. As it happens, however,
there has been least attempt at change, and there is
least occasion for change, in the theory of international
trade. On that part of the subject, the edifice of which
the foundation was laid by Adam Smith and his contemporaries,
and which was further built up by Ricardo,
Senior, and the younger Mill, remains substantially as it
was put together by these ancient worthies. Something
has indeed been added by recent writers; yet nothing
that calls for a remodelling of the old structure. On
the nature of international trade, on its peculiarities, its
working machinery in the foreign exchanges and the
flow of specie, its connection with the drift of labor and
capital to different industries, its bearing on the demand


### ---Economics-1905-0-31.txt---
for labor, and not least the effects of restrictions in the
way of taxes,-on all these topics the old doctrines have
never been seriously shaken. Qualifications of one sort
and another, deviations from the regime of freedom
such as Adam Smith himself conspicuously enumerated,
-contingencies under which commercial blows may be
so-planted as to convert an opponent into an ally-these
have long been admitted. Certain refilled and ingenious
trains of reasoning have been brought forward, too, of late
years, regarding the effects of protective duties on the
distribution of wealth and on the ultimate elements of
social well-being. They connect themselves with some
of the more recent speculations in economic theory at
large. Like these, they have had no effect, as yet at
least, outside the small fringe of scholars and teachers,
and no very marked effect even within that fringe. A
discussion of them would carry this address far beyond
the permissible limits. At best, they suggest only still
further qualifications and still other possible exceptions,
and they leave intact the core of the classic theory of
international trade. That theory, in its essentials, holds
its own without a serious rival.
This being the case among the thinkers, the question
naturally arises as to how it happens that the opposite
theory, or at least the policy based on a very different
theory, holds its own in the field of legislation. Some
consideration, however brief, must be given to this question
in any inquiry as to the present position of the doctrine
of free trade.

There is no one explanation of the strong hold which
protection now has, and bids fair for some time to maintain.
The effectiveness of its appeal to the every-day
man has already been noted. The arguments about
employment, labor, domestic industry, home markets


### ---Economics-1905-0-32.txt---
and foreign markets, rejected though they have been in
all respectable economic writing, emerge again and
again. They will not down, and create a set of prepossessions
favorable to the adoption of protectionist legislation.
But in European countries (for the moment, I
have not the United States in mind) its actual adoption
has heen immensely promoted by two other factors. One
is the competition of new countries in agricultural products.
The other is the growth and intensification of
national feeling.

The effect of the competition of new countries is obvious
enough. With the cheapening of transportation,
not only England, but France, Germany, and the other
countries of Western Europe, have been invaded by supplies
of cheaper food and raw materials. The agricultural
classes have felt the pressure of foreign competitionFormerly
indifferent or even hostile to high tariffs, they
have now been led to join in the demand for protection
against cheaper foreign supplies. In England the agricultural
interest has always been restive under free
trade. In France and Germany, with the new democratic
conditions, its influence now constitutes a strong
political force against the application of that doctrine.
Not less important, however, is the sentiment of
nationality and its unfortunate counterpart, to the sentiment
against foreigners. Of the ennobling and beneficent
effect of national feeling I need not here speak.
Its less favorable aspects unfortunately are most conspicuous
in relation to our present subject. Cobden and
the other English free-traders of half-a-century ago looked
forward to a coming era of peace among nations,
strengthened by the links of friendly exchange and
mutual benefit. How sadly have these hopes been disappointed?
Militarism is no less strong than it was,


### ---Economics-1905-0-33.txt---
even stronger; and every European nation habitually
holds itself in readiness for war.
Even the sober economist, unmoved by sentiment,
and looking solely to the direct and traceable consequences
of this state of things, must admit that here is
a situation that does not fit into the free trade ideal.
Great Britain, for example, depends for feeding her
people on foreign supplies; and it is an inevitable consequence,
however regrettable a one, that she must have
a powerful navy as security against starvation in case
of war. No doubt the balance of material gain is in
her case clearly in favor of free trade: it is cheaper to
have a navy, even a huge and expensive one, than it
would be to support her population at home. But, as
international relations now stand, there exists this expense
to be offset against the gain. Iii Germany at the
present time the same set of persons who advocate the
development of Germany as aln exporting country and
a " world-power" demand a great navy. Oddly enoug1'.
these same persons are protectionists also. But if a
navy is needful to safeguard exports, it is no less needful
for the imports which must also come.
It is but another phase of the same drawback against
the gain from international trade, that it is liable to
interruption. A war between the great countries, such
as is always possible and often seems imminent, wouId
greatly hamper foreign trade, conceivably destroy it.
The greater the previous extension of trade, the more
complete the overturn of commerce; and he who looks
on war as sooner or later inevitable, and perhaps as not
unwelcome, is not loth to have the industries of his
country as self-contained and as self-dependent as
possible.


### ---Economics-1905-0-34.txt---
The national and militant feeling, however, has effects
on public opinion far beyond such deliberate weighings
of gain or loss under war and peace. It rouses a whole
train of sentiments which run against trade with other
countries. It fosters international rivalry in every
sphere. Deliberate and accurate weighing of the benefits
of foreign trade, such as it is the business of the
economist to undertake, probably determiniies the opinions
of a very small circle indeed. The state of mind
of the immense majority is settled by their general feelings
and prepossessions. These are in favor of the
native country and against foreigners; in favor of home
markets and home products, and against foreign competition.
Add to this the strong appeal which protectionist
reasoning makes to the instinctive prejudices and
the inherent selfishness of the every-day man, and you
have an explanation of its continued hold.
In the United States the situation is different from
that in European countries. Here we have in recent
times no industrial invasion from foreigners; we are
ourselves the invaders. The feeling of nationalism is
doubtless strong, and has promoted protection effectively,
but the peculiar fervor which militarism adds to it we
have not experienced, unless it be under the conditions
of the last few years. The maintenance of our protective
system-I will not say of any such system, but of the
extreme and intolerant protection which we have developed-
seems to be explicable chiefly on historical
grounds. Certainly its beginning is not to be ascribed
to any deliberate choice. The system as it now stands
goes back to the Civil War, and is the unexpected outcome
of the heavy duties then suddenly imposed. It
has maintained itself chiefly by the effects of custom


### ---Economics-1905-0-35.txt---
and iteration. The industries of the country have become
habituated to it; and what is no less important,
public feeling has become habituated to it. As in Eng
land for a generation, free trade was the accepted doctrine
from the sheer force of use and habit, so in the
United States protection has been the accepted doctrine.
And, needless to say. just as continued material progress
strengthened the hold of the accepted system in England,
so it has strengthened the hold of the opposite
system in the United States. The appeal to let well
enough alone is always effective. The economic critic
may see in other directions abundant explanation of our
well-being, and may say that a country with such resources,
such institutions, and such a population would
have prospered under any commercial policy. But the
fact of prosperity tells powerfully in favor of the legislation
that in fact has been followed. It is not probable
that any substantial change of policy will be made until
this correspondence has been broken. When evil days
come, as sooner or later come they doubtless will, then
placid acquiescence in the existing order of things will
no longer bolster up the protective system, and the time
will be more propitious for a deliberate overhauling of
accepted notions and beliefs.
Thus, in conclusion, it may be said that the fundamental
principle of free trade has been little shaken by
all the discussion and all the untoward events of the
past half-century. But its application is not so easy
and simple as was thought by the economists of half-acentury
ago. A principle can be stated in clear-cut
terms, and an answer of yes or no can be given with
regard to it. The mode of its application, however,
raises questions of firo and con, and often involves a


### ---Economics-1905-0-36.txt---
balancing of conflicting principles. The question of
principle is none the less important, and important for
practical purposes. He who is convinced that the use
of alcoholic liquors is overwhelmingly harmful may hesitate,
in the world as it is, whether to favor absolute prohibition,
or government management, or private trade
under license and control. Yet, if he has the question
of principle clearly settled in his mind, he will combat
steadfastly popular errors about healthful effects of alcohol,
and will welcome every promising device towards
checking its use. He who believes that war is evil and
wasteful, and militarism preponderantly bad in its spirit
and effect, may regretfully admit that armies and navies
must be maintained, and much labor misapplied in the
making and using of instrumnents of destruction. Yet
he will oppose every unnecessary increase of armament,
avoid every occasion for rousing others to rivalry in
warlike preparation, and welcome every opportunity for
the peaceful settlement of disputes between nations. So
he who believes that international trade is but one form,
and no peculiar form, of the division of labor, and that,
like all division of labor, it is preponderantly beneficial
in its effects, may admit that its application in a given
country raises problems not to be disposed of by mere
appeal to this principle alone. Some of the qualifications
have been considered in what has preceded; and
others will readily occur to you, such as the demands of
public revenue, a needful regard for vested interests, the
political and social effects of trade within the country
aud without. But in considering any question of concrete
commercial policy, it is necessary first to know
whether a restriction on foreign trade is presumably a
cause of gain or loss. Is a protective tariff something
to be regretted, for which an offset is to be sought in


### ---Economics-1905-0-37.txt---
in the way of advantage in other directions, or something
which in itself brings an advantage? The essence
of the doctrine of free trade is that prima face
international trade brings a gain, and that restrictions
on it presumably bring a loss. Departure from this
principle, though by no means impossible of justification,
need to prove their case; and if made in view of the
pressure of opposing principles, they are matter for regret.
In this sense, the doctrine of free trade, however
widely rejected in the world of politics, holds its own
in the sphere of the intellect.
 ## Economics-1906-0


### ---Economics-1906-0-01.txt---
The topics on which I propose to touch this evening
lie in the borderland between economics, politics, and
psychology. This sounds formidable; but my subject
is after all of a very simple sort. I shall consider the
motives that actuate able men in the conduct of large
industrial enterprises, and the possibility of enlisting in
greater degree the services of such men in the administration
of public business. I shall consider further some
of the conditions under which democracy must work,
and some ways in which democracy may perhaps work
better in the future. These are matters to which all
thoughtful men have been compelled to give attention
in recent years. I can offer nothing novel on them, and
shall be content if only I succeed in strengthening
familiar conclusions or illustrating afresh familiar
principles.

When Nassau Senior, perhaps the most scholarly and
wide-minded economist of the British school, enumerated
the postulates of political economy, he contented
himself with mentioning a single trait in human
nature. He set forth such fundamental things as the
law of diminishing returns, the tendency of population
to increase, and so on; and then went on to state in the
simplest terms the one motive from whose working he
conceived that useful conclusions could be drawn: " that
every man desires to obtain additional wealth with as
little sacrifice as possible." This was among the postulates
of the science: something so self-evident, or so
completely established by other sciences, that the economist
might accept it once for all as a basis for further
reasoning.

No doubt the ready acceptance of this proposition as
simple and self-supporting was due to the general intellectual


### ---Economics-1906-0-02.txt---
trend of the time. The drift was in all directions
toward simplicity and unity, toward the analysis of complex
phenomena into a few elements. In psychology,
the doctrine of association of ideas was dominant: all
human impulses were resolved into processes of association
with simple elements. In ethics, utilitarianism held
the field: the sense of right and wrong, so far from being
thought innate, was regarded as a simple precipitate of
mankind's experience of gain or loss from different modes
of conduct. In economics the Ricardian theorems lent
themselves to a brief and consistent statement of a few
ruling principles, leading easily to a compact system of
clear-cut conclusions. All this made natural a rapid
analysis of the motives that influence men in their economic
doings: plain striving for wealth, such as was
seen in operation on all sides.
Since those days the course of thought has much
changed. Psychology has doubled on its tracks, as it were;
association of ideas does not tell the whole story; human
nature, we find, works with no single motive force, but
with a curious assortment of inconsistent impulses.
Utilitarianism throws a flood of light on the directions
which our moral judgments take;; but it remains a question
whether there be not an instinct of right conduct,
very variable in range and degree, but no less deep
rooted than other instincts of the race. In economics,
much as the science has gained by the Ricardian
method of analyzing the bare working offundamental
forces, we feel the imperative need of bearing in mind
the complexities of real life, the interaction of opposing
or converging causes. And so we are not content with
the acceptance of a simple desire for additional wealth
as the one human motive that deserves the attention
of the economist. Why always additional wealth? and
why additional wealth only? and is it not possible that
further examination of the apparently simple desire for
wealth may open new inquiries and point the way to
new conclusions ?


### ---Economics-1906-0-03.txt---
In considering these questions I shall have in mind
primarily the kind of person described in our books as the
" captain of industry"; the manager of large affairs, the
successful man. The qualities which this sort of person
must possess, and the nature of the operations he conducts,
have been abundantly discussed in recent economic
literature. But more has been said of the things
that he does than of the motives that lead him to
do them. The desire for wealth which actuates him is, as
Cliffe Leslie long ago remarked, not a simple motive, but
a very complex one, made up of all sorts of differing
passions and instincts. In trying to analyze him I confess
to have something of the feeling which the naturalist
must have when called on to examine and classify an
ichthyosaurus or a megatherium, a huge and elaborate
monster, doubtless very terrible in the real world, and
not to be dissected even in the scholar's laboratory without
fear and trembling. Yet deliberate examination
may be expected to show that, however strange on first
inspection, and however striking as a species by himself,
this remarkable sort of person partakes of the general
characteristics of the genus homo, and that his ways can
be analyzed and laid bare like those of the ordinary man.
The several aspects or constituent elements of the
complex desire for wealth may be analyzed under four
heads: first, love of ease and comfort; second, desire for
distinction ; third, the impulse to activity; fourth, the
passion for power and mastery.
Of the first of these, the love of ease and comfort, little
need be said, both because the motive itself is simple
and obvious, and because it seems to play no great part
in our problem. We all wish abundant and varied food,
ample clothing, sufficient house room, opportunity for
recreation, and other resources of prosperous living. The
wide diffusion of such physical comfort, and the extent
to which the arts must advance before a satisfactory average
can be secured, constitute the problem of production


### ---Economics-1906-0-04.txt---
for society as a whole. But for the limited section of
society which we now have in mind, this factor can play
no great part. An income very modest in the eyes of
modern fortune-seeking suffices for all essentials. Much
more than this is sought by the would-be captain of
industry; and to understand the springs of his doings we
must consider chiefly the other motives.
Far more effective is the desire for distinction, a
motive so all-pervading that, like the pressure of the air,
it acts on us without our being conscious of its power.
Much that we might be disposed to ascribe to the love
of material ease is but a manifestation of the desire for
distinction: as in our clothing, our houses, even our food.
It belongs among the primary human impulses; it shows
itself in the earliest stages of tribal life, and seems to
gather strength as society advances to more complex
stages. It persists in defiance of all the principles and
traditions of democracy. So wide-reaching and ineradicable
is it that the social reformer must perforce reckon
with it. We can not hope to root it out, even should
we desire to do so. All that can be expected is to modify
its growth, and cause it to develop in ways helpful for
the common welfare.

Doubtless the form of the love of distinction which is
most widely felt is the desire for social superiority,-
using the word social in its narrow conventional sense.
Each layer in society deems itself better than that below,
and wishes to be as well thought of as that above. Each
set decks itself with those outward symbols, from
starched linen to stately mansions, which proclaim to the
onlooker what stage of worldly advancement has been
attained. The snobbery of the race, however flouted by
the satirist, persists in undiminished strength. And this
is a factor of the first importance in the economic world.
It is a prime motive for the accumulation of wealth, and
so for the increase of the community's capital.
The recognition of wealth as sufficient in itself to accredit
the owner in the social scale came first in Great


### ---Economics-1906-0-05.txt---
Britain. Admission to the shining ranks of the upper
class has been the dream of every Briton; wealth, if
piled high enough, has been, next to martial renown, the
surest means of securing entrance. This materialization
of the British aristocracy has unquestionably had a
powerful effect on the activities of the business class. It
has served to promote enterprise, invention and the accumulation
of capital, and has been no small factor in
bringing about that industrial leadership which Great
Britain retained through the nineteenth century. The
same influences have shown themselves in other countries,
tardily at first, but with gathering strength during
the last generation or two. In the United States, in the
absence of hereditary dignities and titles, wealth became
naturally the main avenue to social distinction. Here,
as in Great Britain, it has sometimes taken a generation
or two before the desired goal was attained; but admission
to the set which deems itself exclusive has been attained
by the millionaire's children, or at all events by his
later descendants.

It is not easy to say just in what way and to what degree
the love of distinction in this form affects the captain
of industry. Are the ceremonies and extravagances
of conventional society per se sources of pleasure to the
successful man of affairs ? Or are they valued as symbols
of place and power, external evidences of the attainment
of a distinguished station? These are questions which
the self-made rich man would himself often find it difficult
to answer. Like all of us, he follows the paths of
emulation and imitation marked out for him by the rest
of the world. Perhaps it is not this form of distinction,
but merely distinction in some form, that spurs him;
a doubt which we could solve only if we could try
the experiment of removing all the silly ostentation, and
leaving only a ribbon, a laurel-wreath, for the man who
had guided with success the wealth-making forces of
society. We may infer, indeed, from some things in
every day observation that it is the wives and children


### ---Economics-1906-0-06.txt---
and children's children of the self-made man who care
chiefly for the frippery of wealth. Often he is said to
be, for himself, indifferent to these baubles, even averse
to them. In the infinite shades of variety in human
nature, many no doubt get a real zest of enjoyment from
the paraphernalia of riches, while as many more go
through the motions with weary impatience. But it is
probable that in all cases there is some admixture of
other motives; and in many cases doubtless there is a
preponderance of other motives.
Among these other motives, we may next consider the
impulse for activity: the inevitable wish of the active
and healthy man to be up and doing. Sports and recreation
pall, when pursued not to vary the work of the
world, but as occupations in themselves. A fortunate
few only can find a resource in creative intellectual work.
Your business man, however successful in business, has
commonly no marked aptitudes in other directions, and
has no other resource than to go on with business. He
continues to scheme and work largely from the need of
giving vent to his energies. No other occupation is so
interesting and absorbing as money-making; at all events
no other is so easily entered. Hence many a man who
has accumulated what he once thought quite enough,
continues to accumulate more, and piles riches on
riches, from the mere negative motive that he must do
this or nothing. And doubtless, where such is the case,
the conventional extravagances of the very rich give
some added flavor, from the gratification of the love of
distinction in its snobbish form; even though this
gratification would have been quite inadequate of itself
to induce the exertion.
We must reckon as part of the same impulse, or as one
closely allied, the satisfaction which comes from achievement.
We need not go into psychological refinements,-
there may or may not be, as has been suggested by some
thinkers, an ancient and deep-rooted instinct for workmanship.
Certain it is that many men, and probably


### ---Economics-1906-0-07.txt---
mostmen of the type we are now cheifly considering,
take pleasure in rounded achievement. To one who has
the capacity for management, there is a strong satisfaction
in so administering a complex enterprise that every
part of the mechanism does its work properly, or in
carrying a long continued chain of operations successfully
to the end. The pleasure is like that of the mechanic
in a neat job, of the scholar in a conclusive investigation.
It adds zest to the impulse for activity, and may maintain
activity long after the motives by which labor was
first impelled have ceased to operate.
Last among the motives to which I shall advert is the
love of power. No doubt this passion, like the others
which we have been considering, is not to be regarded
as standing by itself. Only in extreme cases can it be
observed as separately in action. Desire to command
the service of others is obviously one of its sources, and the
love of ease and the aversion to labor contribute to it.
The love of distinction is commonly associated with it.
But here again the question arises why the love of distinction
should take this particular direction; which it
can do only if mankind commonly admire and emulate
the successful exercise of the power of subjugation.
In its brutal forms, the passion for domination is observable,
alas, through almost the entire sweep of history.
We may speculate that it is an outgrowth, a result by
natural selection, of that warfare between contending
races which Malthus illustrated so plentifully in the later
and less familiar chapters of the Essay on Population.
We can hardly doubt that the brute instinct for slaughter
and destruction, which crops out so easily even in our
society of peaceful industry, is an inheritance from the
primal days of the race, when man shared with the rest
of organic life the relentless struggle for existence. Similarly
we may guess the passion for mastery to be the outcome
of the same sort of struggle between the over-peopling
groups and races of men. Whatever its origin, there
can be no question as to its strength and persistence, or


### ---Economics-1906-0-08.txt---
the response which it has met from kindred feelings in
the hearts of men from time immemorial. Alexander,
Caesar, Napoleon, and the whole host of lesser
heroes, have aroused the admiration which all the world
feels for the subjugator. Most of what we know of
history is one long sad tale of sanguinary aggression, of
unceasing struggle by each prince and princeling for
more territory and more vassals, and running through
it all, the glorification of adventure, power, and conquest.
Something of the satisfaction which the captain of
armies has felt, is felt also by the modern captain of industry.
His is a figure as familiar to the modern world
as that of the martial leader has always been, and it is
hardly less admired. He too lords it over thousands and
tens of thousands, and finds gratification for the passion
of mastery as well as for the love of distinction. What
part these two motives, so closely associated, play in the
doings of the fortune-builder, he is himself hardly conscious.
He strives for that which is striven for by his
associates. Among these-in the hierarchy, sacred to
our plutocracy, of the " big men " in the business world
-we can see often no explanation of the incessant striving
and scheming which does not take into account the
passion for domination. The great captain of industry,
with millions of money at his command, has under his
sway a vast complex of men, of interwoven enterprises
and industries, of towns, cities, even of states. To a degree
which we are hardly aware of, but which he himself
appreciates but too well, he is the power behind the
throne in the political life of our boasted democracy. In
the business sphere he is the acknowledged leader, before
whom men bow and cringe, and of whom they speak with
bated breath.

The worship of wealth and of the rich man has often
been the object of satire and of blame; and similarly the
motives which we have just considered,-the love of distinction
in its snobbish forms, and the passion for industrial
mastery,-have been roundly condemned. Yet it


### ---Economics-1906-0-09.txt---
deserves to be noted that the direction which these impulses
take in modern times have led to great gains for
the community. The industrial ideal has supplanted the
military, or if not supplanted it, at least risen to equal
prominence and attractiveness. The satirist and the
lover of the simple life may be amazed that the sort of
distinction which is given by the mere possession of
wealth should be so highly prized; but the substitution
of this avenue to distinction for the feudal one of birth
and valor has meant an immense stimulus to material
progress and peaceful accumulation. Similarly the vent
which the passion for mastery has found in industrial
conquest has meant an enormous gain for peace, industry,
mutual service. Your feudal baron or medieval
statesman was essentially of the robber type. At best,
he was a sort of watch dog, whose business it was to prevent
others from plundering his charges. Our modern
fortune-builder is often portrayed as the counter-type of
the feudal baron; nor can it be denied that, in the ramifications
of modern industry, there are great possibilities
for mere rapacity. But such after all is not the main
effect, certainly not the sole effect, of the money-making
activities. Enterprise, invention, the development of the
fruitful division of labor, the organization of new
schemes, the opening of new lands and the utilization of
new resources,-these have been the main conditions
and accompaniments of great fortunes. We can no
longer hold the semi-theological view reflected in Adam
Smith's oft-quoted phrase, that the individual is "led
by an invisible hand to promote an end which was no
part of his intention"; but we may at least be thankful
that the impulses which move the strong and ambitious
are so often turned to the achievements of peace and
industry.

But, if the community has thus gained from the turning
of the love of distinction to the worship of wealth,
and of the masterful passion to industrial conquest, it
does not follow that this common gain may not be secured


### ---Economics-1906-0-10.txt---
in still greater degree. Is it conceivable that he
who directs an industrial enterprise with success and
thereby gains a fortune, may be induced to labor with
equal zeal and efficiency in public business ? Can the
love of distinction and the passion for domination not
be satisfied in other ways than those we are now familiar
with? Can the great capacities of the captain of industry
be turned directly and unquestionably to the
general good, without the bribe of a fortune and of
power thinly veiled and lightly trammeled ?
Clear it is that the modern community needs the
services of strong industrial leaders. We cannot foresee
how great will be the extension of the functions of
government in the next two or three generations; but
that they will extend measurably, perhaps largely, there
can be no doubt. Public works even in their accepted
-routine-schools, streets, sewers, water supply, lighting,
the post,-become more complicated and call for a
higher order of management. I have little faith in the
theorem that the sphere of the state must of necessity
broaden, and I should hesitate long before venturing
on a prediction as to the extent to which its operations
will be enlarged in this century. But enlargement in
some degree, great or small, is certain. Most certain
of all it is that some at least of the great industries of
modern times would be carried on to greater advantage
for the community if conducted as public enterprises
under able management. Here is the essence of the
problem: can able management be secured? In the
past, there has been found no spur to industrial efficiency
equal to that from the magic of property, with all the
freedom, elasticity, power which flow from unfettered
ownership. Can we find in the future, under public
ownership, any stimulus comparable to this ?
Reverting now to our analysis of the motives for
money-making, I fear we must face the fact that the
most widespread and perhaps most powerful of these
motives can not be easily turned to the aid of public


### ---Economics-1906-0-11.txt---
management. I refer to the love of distinction in its
most familiar form,-the snobbish form, if you please to
call it so: the desire to rise in the social scale. No
doubt, a monarchical or semi-monarchical state can use
a system of orders, titles, decorations, as in some degree
a,substitute for salaries and wealth. But the substitute
is not comparable in efficacy to the desire for wealth as
a means of securing social station, and in any case it is
available in only very limited range under a democracy.
Hence it is probable that, as long as human nature
remains such as we know it, private ownership and management
of capital will conduce most to the efficient and
progressive conduct of production, and that the sphere
of public management, while large absolutely, will be
limited in range and extent as compared with the accepted
and dominant regime of private property.
Nevertheless, there is obvious play for the love of distin
action in public affairs; and this not only in political
affairs as commonly thought of, but in those industrial
problems \vhich are coming to be more and more interwoven
with political affairs. After all, public station is
a lodestone of wonderful power. Not all men of administrative
capacity are open to its attractions, and not all have
the aptitudes necessary for participation in public affairs.
But in the class of business men who form, so to speak,
the officers of the industrial army, and from whom the
generals are recruited, there is a good proportion of ambitious
men for whom public service has a strong attraction.
They are drawn not only by the distinction and
possible fame of a public career; they are drawn also by
something better and higher. In enumerating and classifying
economic motives, we must not forget the altruistic
impulse. Whether or no it be innate, and whatever its
origin, its existence and influence are patent. Like the
other motives which we have considered, it is dominant
only in extreme cases. As some individuals are possessed
by a love of display, and others by a passion for domination,
so a few are consumed by devotion to the rest of


### ---Economics-1906-0-12.txt---
mankind. But most men have mixed motives; they feel
the itch of social ambition, they love power and control;
they respond also to the call for public spirit. There is
enough of public spirit and of genuine altruism to contribute
effectively to the solution of our social and economic
problems. When we add the gratification from
public fame and a place in history, we may feel reasonably
sure that, for a considerable proportion of those
who have the gifts of leadership, the attractions of public
service are powerful enough. Given opportunity for
the exercise of these gifts of leadership, and leaders of
the right stamp will not be lacking.
I say, given opportunity; for here seems to be the
greatest difficulty of the case. The love of distinction
can be gratified, and the sense of duty will strengthen
devotion to the general good. But the case is much
less hopeful as to the other motives which affect the industrial
captain. The desire for continuous activity and
rounded achievement, still more the passion for domination,
are not easily satisfied under the conditions of
public service in a democracy. Here are some aspects
of our problem which deserve attentive consideration.
Let us look first at some of the peculiarities of the
political machinery of our own country. Its familiar
characteristic is the system of checks and balances.
The fear of usurpation by the executive was the natural
fruit of the experience of the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries; hence the hedging of his power, and the
strict line of demarcation between the functions of the
executive, the legislature, and the judiciary. This
principle, suggested by the example of England and the
experience of the colonies, has its most conspicuous application
in the Constitution of the United States, and
prevails no less in the governments of the several states
and of the cities. Throughout we find the same interwoven
authority, the same divided responsibility, the
same checks to any steady sweep of power. The
executive is sharply separated from the legislature


### ---Economics-1906-0-13.txt---
statutes are framed by those who have no responsibility
for their working. The authority of the executive
is commonly restricted by the confirmation of appointments
at the hands of the legislature, or some branch of
it. It is further restricted by the popular election, in
most states and cities, of a great number of subordinate
officials.

The consequences are obvious and too familiar. The
position of chief executive officer in city or state does
not tempt the able man of affairs. The clearest illustration
is to be found in our municipal troubles. In every
one of our misgoverned cities there is no lack of capable
and public-spirited men, able and willing to give themselves
to the vigorous administration of public business.
Managing ability, such as the posts demand, can be found
in plenty. But the conditions of the service do not call
it forth. Setting aside the difficulties of electing a man
of the right type if he were willing to serve,-a matter
to which I shall presently turn,-the prospect of service
after election is unattractive precisely to such a man.
What he sees before him is usually a complex and unwieldy
political mechanism; a body of subordinate
officers imposed by popular vote; a right of check and confirmation
by a municipal legislature, commonly a legislature
with two cumbrous branches; an uncertainty as to the
statutory authority which will be conferred on him by
this legislature and, not least, a brief term of office.
From all this there follows the necessity of caution and
compromise, of conciliating divergent and more or less
selfish interests, persuading suspicious and unintelligent
persons, entrusting the execution of well-laid plans to untried
and possibly insubordinate officials. Another election
must be faced within a year or two, and puts a
damper on the inception of far-reaching plans. Can we
wonder that the impulses for achievement and for
mastery find nothing attractive in the administration of
public affairs? In this matter, as in all human arrangments,
preferences and choices settle themselves into


### ---Economics-1906-0-14.txt---
grooves of habit. The established tradition, in our
American life is that the captain of industry has no ambition
and finds no opportunity in public life. If he
wishes permanent power, lasting distinction, continuous
achievement, he turns to fortune-building in private
industry.

The conditions of the case have indeed evolved a
peculiar sort of one-man power in public affairs, and have
drawn into political life a familiar type of the masterful
man. Such is the party boss, who enjoys power, and a
certain measure of distinction. The mechanism of government
is so unwieldy that those who are within can
not control it; hence there has developed the boss, who
manages the apparatus from without. This can not be
done without skill, shrewdness, enterprise, and other such
qualities needed for any career of leadership. But it calls
also for methods distasteful to straight-forward and highminded
men. Your boss is indeed not always so black
as he is painted; there are political machinists entitled
to our respect. But the role is after all an underhand
one, a circumventing of the avowed plan arid intent of
the general will. It attracts the unscrupulous, and even
the well-intentioned man who essays it finds himself
almost inevitably impelled to fight the devil with fire.
Not infrequently a man who has achieved success as a
leader of industry turns to political activity. He then
usually becomes the manipulator and master of the party
machine, following almost of necessity the familiar
methods of intrigue, bargain, office-mongering, bribery.
The able man of the higher type is not drawn to such
doings, while on the other hand the competition in the
unsavory work has a demoralizing effect on those who
strive for political power.
The system of checks and balances is thus a strong
factor in preventing the most needed abilities from being
exercised in the public service. But it is not the only
factor, possibly not the most important one. The


### ---Economics-1906-0-15.txt---
elemental instincts of democracy are themselves obstacles
to the best working of democracy.
The jealousy of the executive is something more than
a survival from the outlived exigencies of earlier
centuries. It has its roots deep in the everyday prepossessions
of the average man. Those who have read the
voluminous history of trade-unionism in England which
Mr. and Mrs. Webb have put together with such splendid
industry, will have been struck with the lesson which
those authors draw as to the working of pure democracy.
The trade union is loth to put authority into the hands
of its leaders. It clings to town-meeting government.
The necessities of the case have indeed compelled a
gradual stiffening of the organization. More and more
power has been delegated to the executive committees
and general secretaries, and perpetual referendum has
been given up. The imperative need of efficiency in a
fighting organization has caused a departure from the
pure simplicity of democratic principle, and an acceptance
of something like single-handed leadership; yet
even here, under the pressure of vital interest and the
most obvious need, slowly, grudgingly, incompletely.
The working of the same impulse is familiar to every
one who watches our American democracy. There is
always an uneasy fear of " getting away from the people."
Hence the predominance of elected officials, the confusing
multiplicity of elections, the helplessness of the
voter in face of an endless list of unknown candidates for
office,--and so the necessity of party organization to
give a clue and meaning to the whole, and the natural
evolution of the boss. In times of stress and peril,
democracy turns instinctively to a dictator. But in the
humdrum days of peace, it clings no less instinctively to
its own possession of power.
This state of mind, like all our impulses and opinions,
rests largely on tradition. The habitual glorification of
democracy has strengthened it, and it has been further
strengthened by the worship of the Constitution.


### ---Economics-1906-0-16.txt---
Checks and balances are part of the wonted political
machinery. A permanent executive with a free hand
is repugnant alike to the individual's instinct for control
over his representative, and to his prepossessions as to
the proper system of government. The two causes
interact, and reinforce each other; and both tend to
keep out of the public service the type of man whom
the public most needs.
Contrast for a moment the ultra-democratic situation,
inhibiting as it does continuous leadership and achievement,
with its most extreme opposite. There are no more
interesting episodes in history, and in some respects none
more encouraging, than the careers of the British
colonial administrators. The peculiar conditions have
bred a peculiar set of men. Here are power, responsibility,
prolonged tenure, difficult problems; on the other
hand, plastic subject races, habituated for ages to autocratic
government. The work of such men as Lord
Lawrence, in the Punjab, or in our day Lord Cromer in
Egypt, deservedly wins our admiration. Here the impulse
for mastery has had full scope, and has been
directed to beneficent channels. The ambition of every
active-spirited civil servant is fired by the possibilities of
great achievement, when once he shall have reached the
post of leadership. Even in the lower stages he is from
the outset habituated to a position of command. The
admirable traditions which have been fostered during the
past century by the curiously mixed government of Great
Britain,-half a democracy, half an oligarchy of gentlemen,
-served to turn this autocratic power to the
achievements of peace. Hence the unique interest of
the careers of the great colonial administrators. Their
dictatorship gives them the dramatic position of worldconquerors,
yet their labors are directed to the singleminded
promotion of the happiness and prosperity of the
subject millions.

Instructive in a somewhat similar way is the experience
of Germany, and especially of Prussia. Notwithstanding


### ---Economics-1906-0-17.txt---
a framework of democratic apparatus, the
government of Prussia has remained essentially
bureaucratic. The official class is beset by no doubt
as to its power or tenure, no serious checks in its
pursuance of a settled policy. The aristocratic associations
of the service, the traditions of vigorous activity
maintained by the Hohenzollerns, the free gratification
of the love of distinction by titles and decorations, have
drawn into its ranks a large measure of the best ability
of the country. Your German bureaucrat is not always
an agreeable person. But he is usually hardworking and
assiduous, his advancement depends on his efficiency,
and his work gives an opening to the man of power and
resource. Hence the governmental machine in Germany
shows results comparable to those of the great leaders
of private industry in English-speaking countries.
To take a striking example, what more remarkable
achievement has there been in modern times than the
German system of workmen's insurance ? No doubt we
may make reservations even in admitting its success.
Some of the most cherished objects,-the placation of
social unrest and the checkmating of the socialists,-have
failed of attainment. It is a question still what gains
have been secured in the fundamental task of uplifting
the character of the people; whether the whole system
is not after all but a magnified poor-law, with the inevitable
limitations of every such mechanical scheme.
But nevertheless it stands as a wonderful administrative
achievement. The systematic organization and control
of numberless groups of insuring and insured; the interweaving
of central control with local administration; the
regulation of complex financial problems and the accumulation
and investment of millions of capital funds;
the development of a whole new department of legal
practice and adjudication ; the extension of the principle
to new fields, and its amendments and improvement
in the light of actual experience; not least, the
combination of a strong spirit of charity for the poor


### ---Economics-1906-0-18.txt---
with an equally strong spirit of holding them strictly to
account,-all this, I believe, no other government in the
world could have accomplished. The new and untried
operations have given scope for the best ambition of
trained and capable leaders, and such leaders have been
supplied by the bureaucracy, with its traditions of permanent
tenure, continuous policy, honorable distinction.
Something of the same sort may be said of the state
railway system of Prussia. I do not propose to discuss
the difficult pros and cons as to that great case of public
management. It suffices to say that the management of
finances and of traffic has been conducted with a single
eye to what was believed to be the public interest,-no
doubt with some mistakes, but none the less with high
ability. The railway net has been systematically
and steadily enlarged; speculative building and plundering
have ceased, and all favors to individual shippers,
all semi-corrupt machinations, have been abolished;
not least, the discipline of the enormous staff of workmen
has been strict, yet not unkindly. Even though
there may not have been that degree of efficiency in
traffic operation xvhich has been attained by the ablest
American railway managers, there remain achievements
which compel admiration. Certainly we in the United
States must envy the system of officialdom which has
succeeded in attaining results such as now seem hopelessly
beyond the reach of our political machinery.
I do not mention these cases of success in administration
for the purpose of holding them up for imitation in
our own country. Even in a survey of other than our
current American problems, their lessons are to be read
with caution. Democratic conditions are those that
primarily concern us; not only us, but the civilized world
at large. For democracy will prevail more and more in
the future of all advanced countries. Such a career as
that of the British colonial administrator is unthinkable
in a self-governing community; and for this reason, I
may remark in passing, the hopes of those who look to a


### ---Economics-1906-0-19.txt---
healthy reaction on our own problems from our experiments
in colonial government, are likely to be disappointed.
Nor is the lesson of German officialdom in
every respect convincing. It shows what can be done,
not by educating a democracy, but by disregarding it.
In Germany itself, it rests on conditions that we may expect
tosee readjusted in course of time. The steady
growth of the social democracy bears impressive testimony
that the tide of democratic sentiment which shows
itself in all the civilized countries, is rising in Germany
also. Will not that country also be confronted, sooner
or later, with the special problems which popular rule
has universally brought ? It would be idle to speculate
at what distant time and by what processes this transformation
may come, or what results it will bring. It
suffices for our present purpose to bear in mind that the
peculiar historical basis of the German bureaucratic
system can never be reproduced in other countries, least
of all in a democracy like our own. Lessons may be
learned from it, but the thing itself can not be copied.
Let us turn then in conclusion to the special problems
of democracy. These are two-fold: problems of
intelligence, and problems of character.
First, as to the problems of intelligence. I have already
indicated the point on which I believe them
chiefly to converge. The best hope for improving the
machinery of government lies in lengthening the terms
of service for the administrative officers; in reducing the
number of elected officials, and enlarging the appointing
power; in simplifying the machinery of municipal and
state government, perhaps of the national government as
well. All this involves an abrogation of power by the
voter. He must consent to keep hands off,-if not forever,
at least for long periods at a time. Only by some
such change will it be possible to enlist and hold in
public service men of the needed capacity.
There is abundant evidence that our political system
is improving in this direction. We are busily reshaping


### ---Economics-1906-0-20.txt---
our methods of municipal government. A succession of
new charters for our cities bears witness to the consciousness
of existing defects. The trend in all these experiments
is the same. The chief administrators, and
especially the mayors, have longer terms, and greater
power and responsibility. More officers are appointed
by them, less are elected by popular vote. The municipal
legislature is restricted to the business of legislation,
and the administration of affairs is taken away from
its cumbrous and irresponsible committees. Even
where the general system is not modified, or is modified
only half-way, parts of the machinery are adjusted on
the same principle. When a particular thing is to be
done,-the building of a rapid-transit roadbed or tunnel,
the development of a park-system, the construction of
water-works,-the task is often put into the hands of a
'Commission, with a long term and unhampered powers.
It is familiar experience that men of administrative
capacity can be more easily secured for such Commissions
than for the routine posts in state or municipal
service. The explanation is clear: there is opportunity
for uninterrupted activity and successful achievement.
The more such opportunities we have in political
life, the more shall we attract men of power to public
service.

It need hardly be said that it is neither possible nor
desirable to secure in public service so complete a concentration
of power and responsibility as is common in
our large industrial enterprises. I have pointed out defects
in the system of checks and balances, but I would
not be supposed to advocate an unending succession of
dictatorships. We have had too much of dictatorship in
corporate enterprises, and not enough of checks and balances.
Certainly in public affairs it is a question not of
whether or no, but of more or less. Some limitation of
the powers of the executive we must have, if democracy
is to be more than a form. Hence, the instinct for mastery
can never find satisfaction so fully in a democracy


### ---Economics-1906-0-21.txt---
as it can-to refer to examples already given-in bureaucratic
or colonial administration. Powers of persuasion
must be exercised as well as powers of leadership, and
compromise must be a frequent outcome of differing
opinions. We must face the fact that private industry
(so long as it continues to be conducted as private industry
on a great scale) will offer some temptations to
the captain of industry which public service can never
equal. On the other hand, public service satisfies the
love of distinction in a manner and for a degree that can
be equalled by no ostentation of wealth and no sense of
secret power. This lodestone will always attract men to
political life; and, given some reasonable chance of prolonged
tenure and substantial power, it will attract men
of the needed stamp.
The change which we may hope for in the future of
American government must come in the state of mind
of the people as well as in constitutional and statutory
enactment. Something may be done without legislation
of any sort. Capable officers may be reflected,
even though the statutes provide that elections shall
occur annually or biennially. Reasonably free sway may
be allowed them in administration, even though aldermen
or councils have the power to restrict or veto. But,
as I have already had occasion to say, legislation and
tradition react on each other. A change of legislation in
the right direction fosters habits in the right direction.
The activity which we see now in improving the framework
of municipal government is itself a sign that traditions
are mending. As the remodelled charters come
into effect, they will in turn still further react on the
voter's state of mind. Whether both combined will
eventually bring about conditions under which men of
the needed quality will find a congenial field in the management
of public affairs is, to repeat, a question of popular
intelligence.

But-and here we reach the second part of our problem-
it is also in large part a question of character. Are


### ---Economics-1906-0-22.txt---
we sure that corruption and favoritism will be rejected
when they are known? Do the voters wi'sh for honest
public service, efficient management, the use of the
machinery of government not for the gain of one class or
section, but for the single-minded advancement of common
benefits? Will easy employment and favored treatment
enlist them as the supporters of political leaders
notoriously unfit? These are indeed in no small degree
questions of intelligence,-whether corruption will be
recognized as such, and gains for a particular class be
seen to conflict with the general welfare. Mainly, however,
they are questions of character. Their right disposal
depends on the diffusion of the fundamental virtues.
Uprightness, steadfastness in work, good faith in the
affairs of everyday life, respect for law,-these are more
essential for the successful working of democracy than
intelligence in devising political machinery, and in choosing
the right men for working the machinery.
This after all, is the crou of our political and social
problems. Unless the stuff of the people be sound, our
scheming and teaching will be vain. All the study of
political science and constitutional law and comparative
administration, of economics and finance and industrial
organization, avails nothing unless there be a community
fit to profit by it. All the elaboration of more effective
governmental apparatus is useless unless the public really
wishes better government. And not only must we face
this fundamental problem, but we must face the peculiar
difficulty of dealing with it. Intelligence can be taught,
or at least greatly improved. But character grows by
slow steps, and under influences which it is almost impossible
to reshape. It is affected, no doubt, by teaching
and exhortation, but it rests iii the main o0 inherited qualities
and on the example and training which go from parent
to child. How large a part is played by inheritance,
how large by training and environment, we are much
in the dark; but we must resign ourselves to the certainty
that external influences, whether of preachers or school.


### ---Economics-1906-0-23.txt---
masters or learned scholars, do not suffice for shaping
human character.

The American people has undergone great changes iil
the last fifty years. No one catl undertake to say what
will be the outcome, after another fifty years, of the
revolution in industry through which we are passing,
and of our extraordinary mingling g of nationalities. Yet
I believe that the heart of the people is sound, and that
democracy will emerge successfully from the difficulties
ofadjustment to the new conditions. Not without effort,
not without trials, not without disappointments; least of
all, by any rapid or revolutionary changes; yet in the end
with success. Our political machinery is improving, and
is likely still further to improve. The worship of wealth
is diminishing, and the respect for public service is increasing.
Men of character and capacity will win in
the long run the suffrage of the people, and corruption
and jobbery will be rebuked. The fundamental virtues
are not lacking, and we may base upon them our devices
for enlisting high-minded ability, for raising general
intelligence, for bettering the working details of
government. We may expect that the sphere of public
enterprises will be enlarged, as the lessons necessary
for the successful conduct of such enterprises are
learned. We may hope for greater repression of the
selfish motives and the sordid activities, for freer play to
noble ambition and public spirited effort, and not only for
a stronger government but for a better and purer democracy.