
# E2
 ## Economics-1900-0


### ---Economics-1900-0-01.txt---
At our meeting a year ago, I had the honor to address
this Association on the relations between economics and
politics. At that time I sought to indicate at once the
need of all increase of influence to be exerted by economists
upon the political world, and the method by which
such increase might best be attained. On the fact tlaat
such a change was needed there seemed to be no difference
of opinion. But on the method by which it was
to be accomplished there was much more diversity of
view. Certain members went so far as to regret tlaat in
the brief time which was given for discussion no adequate
opportunity was aSorded them to develop different,
and to soone degree antagonistic, ideas, with regard to
the means to be pursued in order to increase the influence
of the economist in modern political life. The
present address is in some sense a continuation of that
which was delivered a year ago. It is an endeavor to
expand more fully the argument on those points where
the members of the Association felt themselrres rnost
doubtful. In its preparation I have been actuated
throughout by the desire to give the fullest opportunity
for the discussion of difficult questions; and I believe
that its chieE value will lie in the stimulus which it gives
for such discussion.
It }was been well said by more than one of the members


### ---Economics-1900-0-02.txt---
of the American Economic Association that modern
political econotny contains two distinct pal-ts often inextricably
intermingled in fact, yet always separate in
principle a theory of distribution and a theory of prosperity.
The theory of distribution shows how the public
wealth is divided among the different members of
the community. It shows what are the effects of a system
of laws or a group of commercial conditions on the
relative well-being of the different classes concerned.
It tries to predict how changes in these laws will increase
the Material cornfort of some individuals and
diminish that of others. The theory of prosperity, on
the other hand, is concerned primarily with the good or
evil of the nation as a whole. It deals with aggregate
results rather than with individual ones, and concerns
itself with the separate parts only as they must be
studied in order to understand that aggregate effect.
The distinction between these two sets of theories is
not quite the same as that between static and dynamic
economics; for a considerable part of the theory of distribution
deals with dynamic problems with effects
which are essentially the result of industrial progress
rather than of static adjusttnent. It Inuch ollore nearly
coincides with the old antithesis between deductive and
historical schools. It may perhaps fairly be said to be
a precise statement of a distinction for which the earlier
znembers of the historical school were feeling, but which
they failed to grasp or formulate in precise fashion a
failure which reacted seriously upon the influence of
this school in matters of economic controversy. Be this
as it may, the distinction is a real and permanent otle.
WIen may agree absolutely in their theories of distribution
and disagree SoSo coelo in their theories of prosperity.
Marx, in his theory of distribution, followed


### ---Economics-1900-0-03.txt---
Ricardo implicitly; in his theory of prosperity he
differed from hiln at every point. It was just because
he accepted so thoroughly olae part of the Ricardian
economics that he was able to dissent so consistently
from the other, with a directness of opposition born of
mutual understandioag. It was because each assutned so
fully t}<e existence of free cotupetition, and carried out
that assumption so completely to certain of its logical
collsequelaces, that this same power became a demigod
to the one and a demon to the other. In the words of
the poet,

" Both read the same books, day and night,
But thou readest black where I read white."
As far as a man's political economy takes the fortn of
a theory of distribution, it is not sure to be very closely
connected with his ethical principles, or even with his
political ones. In framing such a theory he is occupied
with tracing consequences from observed facts. His
political antecedents or his ethical prepossessiolls may
lead him to observe some facts more closely than others,
or to examine some parts of his chain of reasoning more
critically thala other parts. But these variations, as
far as they exist, are errors, even from the man's own
standpoint, errors which he is interested in correcting
as soon as they can be brought clearly home to him.
He can say, in the words of Dunoyer, is Je ntisspose rien}
ye sse propose Wseme rien . jexpose ) I am neither impounder
nor even propounder, but expounder. Nor do
his theories of distribution modify his ethics onuch more
than his ethics ulodify his theories of distribution; except,
perhaps, so far as the halDitual assumption of a set
of facts and laws leads to the habitual assuluption of the
rightness of those laws, morally as well as intellectually.


### ---Economics-1900-0-04.txt---
Or1 the other hand, a man's theory of prosperity is
closely interwoven with his theories of ethics and of
politics. Moral and political standards are a determining
element in our judgtnent as to whether a nation's
aggregate condition is good or bad. Observation as to
the effect of diflerent industrial systeIns on the stability
or destruction of a nation reacts, in turn, upon our
moral and political judgments. It is at tl-lis point that
the interaction between economics and politics, whether
by way of ulutual aid or mutual criticism, is ollOSt conSta
11t. OI11Y occasionally and incidentally do our
theories of distribution lead lIS to intervene in political
aHairs by showing that certain lines of legislation produce
different results from those which are contemplated.
Daily and hourly does our theory of prosperity lead us
to such intervention, when we believe that the aitns of
a certain group of moralists or politicians are destructive
to the well-being of the nation as a whole.
At this point, where the possibility of influence is
greatest, the difficulty which meets the economist who
strives to maintain a dispassionate and critical attitude is
also keenest. In his theory of distributiola he can
readily remain a passive observer of facts. He can
measure and weigh the results of coznpetition, as he can
measure and weigh the results of gravitation or of bioX
logical selection; and can guard himself against error
in fact or deduction by the sall-le methods which are
used by the physicist or the biologist for the same purpose.
Bllt when he comes to measure the aggregate
merit of the total result, he has a different task and a
far harder one.

I said a year ago, and I still believe, that even in this
task the scientific knowledge possessed by the economist
enables him to cotne nearer to its fulfillment than can


### ---Economics-1900-0-05.txt---
his fellow members of the community; that in this field
of exceptional doubt he should undertake to realize the
very highest ideals as a scientific mall who stands above
the clouds of prejudice, and therefore sees farther than
those about him; that it is his high mission to be the
repre.seoltative and the champion of the permanent interests
of the whole cotntnullity, in the face of conflicting
clailus from representatives of temporary or partial
ones.

This view of the mission and the duties of the political
econoluist has been challenged on three grounds: as
bad psychology, bad politics, and bad ethics. We are
told, in the first place, that as a matter of practical psychology,
no anan can wake his judgment as to national
well-being independent of his social antecedellts and his
ethical training. If he has gl-own Up among soldiers,
he will have one set of standards; if he has grown np
among business men, he will have a second; if he has
grown l:Lp aluong literary men, he will have a third; if
he has grown up among laborers, he will have a fourth.
Strive as he may to disassociate himself frotn the ef-fects
of education and environment, he can at best be but
partially successful. His political vision suffers not
only from nearsiglltedness, but from astiglllatisIll. He
may correct the former; no power on earth can enable
him to correct the latter, or even to gain an objective
estimate of its effects. Robert Malthus was a disinterested
man, and so was Henry George; yet in neither
case was such disinterestedlless sufficieolt to protect them
frorn obliquities of moral vision which led to diametrically
opposite conclusions as to the conditions of public
prosperity. A man may have the intentioIl to be impartial,
and may be perfectly candid in the belief that
he has carried out this intention; but that only makes


### ---Economics-1900-0-06.txt---
matters worse, because this delusiol-l prevents him frotn
recognizing the need of applying outside correctives to
his judgilaellt, and often leads him to impugn t}le fairess
of anybody else who suggests such correctives.
W1ly not, under these circumstances, adulit freely the
difiiculty under which we labor in ollaki llg objective
judgments ? W}ly not recot nize from the first that each
of lIS represents a locality or a class, aIlcR that the moral
judgmelat of each observer is sure to be affected and to
some degree distol-ted by his own persoolal prepossessions?
Such a course, frankly adopted, its advocates claim, will
keep the bad men froul hypocrisy, the ,ood men fl-ooll
self-deception, and the large olurnber of nlen who are
neither very good nor very bad from that ollixture of
hypocrisy atld self-deception which contrives to coollbille
all the evils of them both.
We are told, in the second place, as a wholly independent
line of argutnent9 tlzat an attempt on the part of the
economist to represelat the total interest of the public,
even if ila a few cases of eminent mental and moral elzdoment,
like John Stuart Mill, it ploved approximately
possible, would not be good politics. The assumption
by all economist that he represents the total
interest of the community rather than the interest of
some one part or class iol that colllmuolity, exposes hiln
to the suspicion of being either a pharisee or a hypocrite
ither a man who over-estitnates his own righteousness,
or one who pretends to a righteousness which he
does not possess. If either of these titles is a just one,
it interferes with a mall's success as a political reformer.
If it is even suspected to be just, it will prove a heavy
weight around his neck. Even if a lnan believes hiInself
to be wholly free from either hyprocisy or pharisaism,
it is a wise measure for him to keep out of the


### ---Economics-1900-0-07.txt---
company of hypocrites and pharisees. He will be a
more efEcient reformer if he claims a little less for his
nission and catl get those lesser claims recognized, than
if he claims everything allci gets no recognition at all.
We are further told that whether he be considered
a hypocrite or not, he sarin be entitled a visionary,
and justly so. The general public whose interests he
represents is not a working political force. Its interests
are so vague and remote that there is no means of getting
them recognized in the concrete work of legislation
and of government. You tntlst appeal to localities
and to classes. Localities have their representatives,
classes have their organs. Each locality and each class
has its public sentiment, which in one way or another
-is a living power in politics. This existence of a coherent
public opinion and of a deSnite interest is a necessary
condition for the social refortner, who would be
more than a pure theorist. The one is his material, the
other is his tool. No luan, however great, call hope to
ElCCOnlpliSh his results with laeither tools nor materials
ready to his hand. Even if you believe yourself wholly
disinterested you must appeal to classes and secure the
partial good which is attainable, rather than aim at the
greater good which from the outset you are fated to miss.
They tell us further that this view of the matter represents
not only practical politics but practical ethics.
Life in a modern free coulmunity is an interaction and
interplay between the several meInbers of that community.
Each individual is working for ends of his own,
distinct from those of other individuals. Each class
has standards and ideals of its own, differing from those
of other classes. Civil liberty is but a recognition of
these differences permission to the various members of
$he state to pursue their own several ends under the protection


### ---Economics-1900-0-08.txt---
of a comtnon law. Accordilg to this view, the
man who would sink the interest of a class in a supB
posed general public interest, is but depriving that class
of its OWI1 natural safeguard in the struggle for existences
If it works for itself it gets what it can sometimes
more than it ought, sometimes less than it ought; but in
a reasonably well-ordered civil societ5J it takes its chances
with the others. If a silogle group, in its zeal for the
general good, otnits to pursue its own group interest, it
causes a want of balance between the parts, upsets the
conditions of the gaule, and contributes rather to its
OWI1 annihilation than to the predolninallce of those
conceptions with which it has identified itself. Let us
have fair play; let t1S have a fair chance for conflicting
views to strugt,le olae with another, as a condition of
progress for the whole society. This is the cry amolog
no small number of those who think they have studied
the conditions of modern progress most carefully.
Widespread and plausible as are some of these views,
I desire to take fundamental issue with those who support
them.

The system of political ethics just outlined is an outgrowth
of ollr experience with two important institu
tions, competition and representative government.
Competition has led people to see now frequently the
self-interest of the individual, as given free play, confl
dtlces to the general advance of the pulDlic. Representative
government has shown how a full expression of
opinion by those who speak for the several parts or
classes in the community can be made to contribute to an
advance which inures to the advantage of all parts and all
classes together. Yet in the face of these facts, I believe
that the theory of struggle and cotnpromise as a normal
means of progl-ess needs restatement; and that the mall


### ---Economics-1900-0-09.txt---
who looks below the surface in the study of these two
institutions, will be brought to conclusions directly opposite
from those which prevail in so lullell of the current
thought of the world to-day.
Does the theory of competition ,ive ground for the
view that a struggle between different parts for their
class interests, works out in an econzo1nic hartnony?
Not at all. It shows, on the contra1-y, that strugg-les
ZeviShiv each class, antagonistic for the moment to the
appare11t interests of that class, so conduce to the interests
of tnany other parts of the body politic as to work
GUt a generally beneficent result. No econelllist of any
reputatiol1 would hold for a IllotTlent that the econonoic
struggles of differel1t men for themselves, wol11d furnish
a reasonable basis of adjustment, or conaproollise, with
those in diGerent positions. What the chanopioll of
coznpetition holds, is rather tl-lat the struggles of each
mall for him.self prevent others, wlao are in a sionilar
position, from takiolg undtze advantage over their fellow
nen. It is not a conflict between classes, but a conflict
within classes, wlaicll he seeks to perpetuate; aold he
would perpetuate it because he can prove, or thinks
that he can prove, that it conduces to a comlllol1 interest
more wide and more lasting than those which the individual
classes, if organi%ed into trusts or trades unions,
would seek to pursl1e.
It is popularly said that coznpetitiol1 is only the form
wlaich the struggle for existence takes in nzodern civili
7ed societZ. This is at once true and false true in
form, false in the suggestions to which it gives rise.
The fact is, that tnodern civilized communities have so
regulated the struggles for existence, that tl1ey tend, on
the whole, to the benefit of third parties, rat11er than to
their detriment. Two cats stmggle to eat the same


### ---Economics-1900-0-10.txt---
bird; two bosses conzpete to eluploy the same workman.
Froth the standpoint of the bosses, the transaction bears
some analogy to the case of the cats. From the stand
point of the workman, the tlansaction bears no analogy
whatever to the case of the bird. The more cats there
are, the worse for the bird, as well a.s for the cats; the luore
bosses there are, the worse for the bosses, but the better
for the workman. When Adam Smith showed the
efficiency of competition as a regulator of price and an
itlerease of useful production, he furnished a powerful
defence for the existing social ordel-. He cannot, how
ever, for that reason, !e fail-ly charged with having been
an advocate of the interests of the property owner. Tlae
weight and force of his reasoning lay in the fact that he
showed the beneficent effects of such coolopetition upon
the colntnullity as a whole, rather than on persons most
ilumecliately interested. He may have exaggerated
those good effects and underrated the evils by which
they were accompanied. I small not now try to discuss
that point. But his permanent and decisive influence
as a social reformer lay not i.l an advocacy of the views
of any class, but in his advocacy of a means of correctilag
the formation of class lines. The success of cotnpetition,
so far from warranting llS in the adoption of a
system of political Morality and a theory of political
progress, based on advocacy of class ilzterests. pronres
rather the advantage and even the llecessit) of subordiating
those interests to a wider common good.
With the institution of representative government the
case is soznewhat different. Here we hasTe an organization
of localities and of classes, and a recognition of such
clas.ses in the actual work of government. It would,
therefore, seeril as though the success of this system
were a powerful argument on the side of that theory


### ---Economics-1900-0-11.txt---
of politics and of ethics which regards the good of the
whole community as best to be reaehed by a eoznpromise
between the aims of differelat sectiolas of the eoznlllullity.
But a profouncler study of constitutional llistoryr leads
to an opposite conclusion. It slaows that lDarlialllents
atld eollgresses, in the really ,reat periods of their
history, have been valuable, not as a field of eomproznise
betweela loeal interests, bllt of infol-luation as to g,eneral
ones; not for the collstlmtllation of prisate bargains, bllt
for tloe ereatioll of ptlblie .spirit.
Down l:o the end of the last century, the Ent,-lish Parliament,
as its nalaze implied, was essentially a plaee for
disc1lssio1]. Repl-ese]tatives from different localities
met together at NVestlaillstel- to interchange views as to
the state of the nation. Each lnenlbel- reported to the
others the feelings atld wants of his locality; eaeh re
eeiveci froon his fellow members enlightened views as to
the affairs of the loeallll as a whole, wlliell he was able to
repol-t at home aIld Inake tile basis of pl-aetieal aetioll in
his section of the community. The essential flllletioll of
the early parliaments vvas the creation of a united publie
sentiment. They roused the interest of the El,-lish
people outside of the sphere of then- petty loeal exigelleies,
and enabled tlleoll, by eoznllloll aetioll, to resist -the extensions
of the royal prel-ogative to which, in the absenee
of sueh eolllmoll action, they must separat-ely 11ave
fallen vietims. It is true that the Houses of Parliaulent
llad lal-ge funetions in addition to tl-lis, but they all
group tllemseln7es round this eentral work. Even the
right of the Comlnolzs to originate lueasures of taxation,
so sedulously attaelxed by the kings, and so jealously
guarded by parliaments, llad its ehief importanee, not
as a means of avoiding the imposition of burdens upon
the people, but as a means of eompellilag the monareh


### ---Economics-1900-0-12.txt---
to call repl-esentatives of different parts of the people
together for the authoritative presentation of popular
OpilliO. At the close of the last century, wlaell other
countries adopted institutions modeled on the Eaglish
Parliament, it was intended that they should preserve
this same function as del:)ating bodies; and the most
glorious pag-es in the history of the United States Congress,
are those in which public opinion was formed and
public spirit roused by speeches like those o£ Webster
atld of Clay. Just as in the sphere of coznnzerce, competition
enables members of the different parts of the
business community to tet something wider mal a class
view point, and compels them to work t.o a collalllon
end, so in the sphere of politics did representative governtnent
enable and compel naembers of the diSerent
geographical sections to get something wider tlaall the
local view point, and to see what was the general sentiment
of tl-le 1lation of which they formed a part.
In the course of the presel-lt century our representative
assemblies have ceased to be places for debate.
The extension of the telegrap1ll and the postal service
has given the diSerellt parts of the comtnullity lnealas of
information luore rapid, althoug-ll in some respects perhaps
less trustworthy, than that which was furnished
by their Congressional l^epreselltaties in the oldeIl time.
The press has taken the place of the legislature as a
forum for the formation of public sentiment. Parliaments
and congresses hase become bodies for the making
of laws rather than for the zzlaking of opinions.
That this change has been accompanied by a loss in
sallltary influence of legislative bodies is, I think, unquestionable.
No longer do the membel-s strive to impress
their several convictions on the whole body of
which they form a part; they strive rather to form a


### ---Economics-1900-0-13.txt---
compromise in which the interests of the part which
they represent shall have adequate recoanitioll. This
substitution of compromise for conviction as the ideal
of legislative activity is perhaps the oreatest and most
pervasive evil ulader which our political machinery
suffers. It shows its effect in the demoralizing principle
that the l-epreselltative should be guided in his
utterallces and his votes by the opiniolas of his constituents,
rather mall lDy lais own a principle which, in
spite of all protests, has come to be gelzerally accepted
in practical politics. It deprives the member of the
legislature of the educational influence incident to his
position. It makes him an agent not only of his district,
but of his party within his district. It manifests
its results in appropriation bills, where the Inembers
who stand up for the general interest of the treasury are
increasingly rare, and those who luake claims for the
expenditure of money on behalf of their localities and
often on behalf of private interests within their localities
become constantly louder. It shows itself even in
general legislation, where the character of modern
statutes as a patchwork of private demands has become
only too notorious.
All this has gone so far as to produce a change in the
public estimate of parliamentary bodies. The glorificatioll
or idealizatioll of the legislature, so cotnlllon in
g-eneratiolls immediately gone by, is rapidly passing
away. In matters of municipal government we are lessellilag
the application of the old represeoltative systemgiVillg
more power to the mayor and those persons appointed
by the mayor, and less to the representatives of
the several districts; because, with the amount of busi-
-ness that is done by the ordinary municipality, we cannot
afford to let the gelzeral interests of the xvhole be


### ---Economics-1900-0-14.txt---
plundered in behalf of the several parts. The same
tendelley sllos^rs itself in eonneetioll with state legis°
latures, whose sessiolas are now beilag made less frequelat,
and whose sphere of action when they do meet is
lDeing narrowed by eonstitlltiolls and other instruments
providing for a referellee of all more important lars to
the people direet. {t is l]ot neeessary for the purpose
of this argument to say when-ler this ehallge be ala improvement
or not; it is at any rate a signifieallt sibn of
the trend of the times. The abanclotSllllent of the duty
of debate as to the eolntnon interest anci the sllbstitu
tiOIl of the work of negotiation as to the private and
partisan interests within the several distriets, have often
eollverted the representative assembly froul a souree of
pvlblie safety to one of publie danger.
The eauses wllieh have prevented eompetition in
business and representative goverlllz;lent in polities from
fully safeguarding the interests of the eommullity in the
days just gone by are likely to be aeeentuated in the
near future.

Improvements in maellillery and in business orgalliza--
tion during l-eeent year.s have developed to suell all exteIlt
that eompetitioll, in the old sense, is in lpally lines
a thing of the past. It eall no longel be utilized with--
out loss of publie as well as private eeollotny. We eall--
not have parallel railroads or eonlpetillg water workswitllotlt
a loss, either from inereased expense of plant
or diminished eollvenienee in sers7iee. We eanllot, iol a
great lllanr lines of ulanufaeture, have eoll-lpetitiool as
we llad it twenty-fi\, e years ago, without disastrous
fluetuations in priee and the danger of eommel-eial
erises due to irregulal- investtnents of eapital. All these
facts are so familiar at the resent day that it is useless
to enlarge upon them. Business has beeome a trust, in


### ---Economics-1900-0-15.txt---
a sense far different from that a7vhiell tl1e aeeidental applieation
of this word has earried with it, a thing in
volving a delegation of power by the publie to the hands
of a few men, wllieh they are able, if tl-ley please, to
misuse to the detriment of otllel-s without beilog immediately
overtaken by any legal or eommereial penalty.
That they xvill themselves suffer in the long run from
sueh misuse of powers entrusted, is very probably true;
but the reaetion upon mein i.S SO illclireet that we eal<
not rely upon it as a proteetiotl to eolllmereial soeiety
in the way that we eould rely on everyday eolnpetition
in the smaller and more individualized business of fifty
years ago. The eorl-eetives to the abuse of individual
selfishness in the eonlulereial world today are so lllElCh
less imlolediate and autotnatie than they onee were that
very few persons now preaeh unlimited eompetition as
a means of proulotillg the general good. So luarkedS
indeed, is this reaetion that there is dalager of our having
too little eonEdellee in individual initiative in the
immediate future, and of regulating these trusts by ex
el-eise of publie authority, wlliell may prove in the long
run less wise than private enterprise itself.
A similar ehallge is taking plaee in matters politieal
as well as industrial. Not only are otlr lrlunieipalities
giving examples of eombined aetion in the way of publie
works ulldreamed of a eentury ago, lDllt our nations as
a whole are undertaking yet larger eolllbi nations i l] tlse
shape of eolonial eli-lpires. What will be the ultimate
result of this last ehallge of national ehal-aeter it ls far
too early to prediet; but this is eertain: that it will
neeessarily be aeeompanied b a recognition of the faet
that publie offiee is a pulDlie trust ulore fully than it has
been reeot,nized in the past. A federation of states of
approximately equal strength ulay govern one another


### ---Economics-1900-0-16.txt---
ona prinoiple of separate pursuits of selfislo interests;
and although there will lDe some aggregate loss through
the preference of local interests to general ones, there is
likely to be at least a relative fairness when each member
of the federation is strong enough to secure its own
share of the plunder and to protect itself from uladue
imposition. But when we coule to admiolister the affairs
of a weaker nation to which we do l-lOt and cannot give
political autoIlomy, the evils of the olci system become
so obvious and the need of ideals in politics becoules so
exacting that even those who in their past public life
have scoffed at the conception of a higher law than theilown
selfishness, are, under the llesr conditions. compelled
by very shame to appeal to such a higher law.
The more completely our undertakings, whether private
or public, industrial or political, take the character of
trusts, the more impossible does it become for those who
are placed in authority to represent personal or class interests
without gross violation of w]lat we, in our everyday
life, recognize as fundamental dictates of sympathy
or of justice.

If it were true that each luaol's mental horizon were
bounded by his class interests; if the mall who claimed
to look beyond them were sure to be regarded as a hypo
crite and were likely to be abused as self-deluded; if we
nrere constitutionally inaccessible to any political motives
higher than those of rational egoism; this wou]d
simply mean that we were fundamentally unfit for the
task that is before u.s. It would mean t;hat the trusts
whicTl were placed in the hands of our citizens by the
new colldltions of business and of politics, xvere of a
kind which we could not fulfil. It would indicate that
the largeness of our problems would ruin us xnorally  and politically, ass Rome was ruined by her imperial


### ---Economics-1900-0-17.txt---
probletus two thousand years ago. But I have faith to
believe that this is not the fate marked out for us to-day.
I believe that the Alzlericall people and the modern civilized
world in general will solve these probletus, as they
have solved other problems which have come up iul the
successive phases of their history; that we shall meet
the new collective 1leecls of industry and government
with a true collectivisIn of spirit and purpose. Not
with that superEcial collectivism or socialism which,
like the individualism that it strives to supersede, often
allalces too much of mere political machinery, and believes
that mel] are to be saved by their institutions
rather than their characters; but with a public spirit
which detnallds, as a part of the national ethics, that
lnen shall shape their course on the basis of conviction
rather thala of compromise, and that public discussion
shall look toward a commoIl understanding rather than
a bargain. Because the political aled colllonercial Methods
of the past have led to coillproulise rather than conviction,
or because the successful man of affairs must be
read^T to compromise where he fails to convince, let us
not say that all politics and all commerce is but a tissue
of compromises, and that a political or commercial
science which pretends to be something broader and
better than this, is all illusion. Let us as economists
take the opportunity that lies lDefore us, in the face of
new conditions for whose treatment the old methods are
plOVillg themselves inadequate. Let us employ our Ullw
derstallding with regard to public needs as a means of
evoking public spirit. Let us use svllatever special
knowledge we have with all the breadth of purpose
which it is in our power to attain, aold make ourselves,
as becomes lnen of science, representatives of nothing
less than the whole truth.
 ## Economics-1901-0


### ---Economics-1901-0-01.txt---
A stranve contrast is afforded lgy the various utterances
of popular economic literature touching the Sll5-
ject of competition. The folloving qllol:atioll fllrllishes
us with a forceful expression of opinion adverse to competition
and may be taken as typical of views held by
a class of sincere, enthusiastic champions of social refortn.


" Cotnpetition is not law but lawles.sness. Carried to
its logical outcolue it is anarchy or the absence of law.
W1an is a moral, spiritual, and social being, 1lot dominated
by anitnal laxv. There can he no such thing as a
harmollized society with any colupetitive elements in it,
and Christianity is itrlpossible. Bsrery man oxves the
world his life, and mu-st live to Ilave a life to giv. In
competitive conditions not character but cunning survives.
The gospel of success is the great insanity of
modern materialism, absorbing the best brain, thought
and life of the race; we have been feeding ollr cnildren
to this great Moloch o-f success, but as a result re have
been warping the intellect and making moral idiots.
" We are coming to a higher evolution, in which the
law of mutual service small be the law of life. Ally
attempt to build society on a cotnpetitise foundation is
fundamentally anarchical. The idea of brotherhood


### ---Economics-1901-0-02.txt---
has come to stay and will not back clown at the bidding
of politicians, mollopolists or theologians. The years
behind llS are btlt a getting togetllel- of llumaol material
iol a clivil-le eZCfort of pGrfectecT 11ulllatlity. Delllonracy
mltst be applied to ^eol-gallizillg the maclliller of the
world." 1

Now let IIS )llt orter a>aillst tlwis utterance a clearcllt
expres.sion of opinion as faroralDle to competition as the
wordEs re have just llSeCi are 1lncavrorable to this manifestation
of social force in our economic life.
" CoInpetition ssras the git,AlltiC Inotor tliat caltsed
nearly everybody Cull-illg the first nineteen centuries of
Christian civilization to use all his l-nental anc1 physical
powers to get ahead. The best efforts of hulllalwity,
stimulated by colupetition . . . . . have lifted our race to
a standard where the mode of living of common laborers
is more comfortable and desirable tlaall the every-day
existence of the kings of wlloul Homer Smt,S. 2
Once again listen to this vigorous outburst in denun
ciation of competition, written some fifty years ago by
a distinguished leader of Christian Socialism in England:
" Sweet competition ! Heavenlr maid ! . . Now-a-days
hymned alike by penny-a-liners and philosophers as the
ground of all society . . . the only real preserver of
the earth ! Why not of Heaven, too ? Perhaps there is
competition amont, the anvels, and C;abriel and Raphael
have won their rank by doint, the ulaxitnum of worship
on the minimum of grace. We shall kllosr some daye
In the meanwhile, ' these are thy nvorkvs, thou parent of
all good ! ' Mall eating man, man eaten by mall, in every
variety of degree and method ! Why does not some el-l-
1 Clezxelaosd Citizesz, March I4, I896. Attributed to George D.
Hel ron .

2 Richard Michaelis in Looking Further Forward, pp. v and 85.


### ---Economics-1901-0-03.txt---
thl1siastic political ecollol1list write an epic 01l ' Slle
Colusecratioll of Cannibalism' 9 ' 1
On the other hand listen to Lllese words by a sturdy
American wlzose coul-age in delatonciatioll of wrolzg in
lait,-ll places no ol-we cail l-iglltly ilnpl1gll:
" The competition of eco11olloies is 1lOt the so-callec1
coml)>titiotl of our breat centers svllere meh strive to
drive mel-l to the srall, l)ut tl-le coollpesitioll which leaves
each in fl1ll possession of that proc1toctive power nvllid
best Unites his labol- nvitll tlze labor of others.
Colnpetitiolo is 1]0 mol-e trespass tllaol it is theft. 1:t i
the reconciliation of me;l in those productive proD
cesses which issl1e in tile lart,-e.st a^,gregate of wealth.
It is 1lOt crowding lnel-l oaff their feet, btlt a means of
platitilig 11e1I1 upon tl-leir feet." q
T1lese ql1otatio1ls colold be nat1ltiplied i1ldefinitely on
the ol-e side and 01l the other. AVe IS1ld it asserted on
tlae o1ze laand tlaat colupetitiotl is slnft1l warfale; that
it is iicliisiokl distonion, every man for l-lilnself, every
mal1 ao-aiast his brotl1er "; 3 O11 the otl1er haz1d that it is
mutual service; that it is altrtliDlll of a .superiol- quality;
tl1at it is tt1e essenee of the golclel1 hue; tl1at it is loving
our neiglll:)or as ourselves in other A7ord.s, that a correet
rellderi nt, of Christian love is eolllpetition . 4
Apparently shell eolltl-aclietory views admit of no
eeolleiliatioll. But when we think seriously about tile
matter, we al-e foreed to ask ourselves tl1e question:
now is it possible tl1at men of ulldoubted eapaeity, of
utlqtlestiolled sineerity, of warm enthusiasm for l1unallitr'
eala hold views respeeting eompetition, this
1 Cllal-les Kingsley in Cheap Clothes and Nasty, printed with Alton
Locke, vol i, pp. 82-3.
2 John BASCOln 011 The Moral Discipline of Business. Tke Xingdo>
minneapolis, NIAy, I896.
3 Kingsley, 1. c., p. I04.
4 Edward AtlSinson on Cooperative Cotnpetition. EMze lMew WorZds
September, I895.


### ---Economics-1901-0-04.txt---
great corner-stone of oul- economic order, so cliainet:rlcally
opposed that wrllat the one corclially hates tile
otl-ler arclently admires as a source of altinclanee fC3r all
the cleserwrilig children of zuen? ATay it llOiC be tlat,
after all, these cil.stDlitalit.s are talkitig al3011t somewhat
diSerezat t4lillgS and that N&that ;.S Ceded Erst of all is
deSllitioll 9

V\;l-at preciselr rto re have in ozzitld rlleol zre Clls;cl1.Ss
competition) Colrlpetition9 iln a lart,-e Ciense, uleanC a
strlltrt,le of cotliSietilla interest;D. If sTvTe (3pe11 0.1i- clictiolzaries
and read the defiolit;on.s there gizela, we .small
find solzLlelLlliilC like this in e-lell oz-le of tllezn: " lS1le
act of seel ing or elldeavorint,^ to gai<:l what al- other is
encleavoritlo- to gain at the same time; com-iU011 eotltest
or str;villD for the satne object; strife for superiol-ity;
rivalry.) (Century Dictiollarr.)
:Pt-ofessor G;cle llStS these rords to tell llsTvvllat he
understands l.)y COl}lpetitiOIl in tfliS lclrCe SellsSe 6; hell
each individual in a country is at libel-tJz to take the
action he considers the most advantat,eolls for hitmself,
whether as regards the choice oS atl employment or tTle
disposal of iliS boods, l.re are lisTinoJ under the l-ebilae of
competition.') i

But we do not have enough precision il- these cJefilli
tiOllS to ansver our purposes. Ecolaoonic conapetltiola,
it is trne, is a struggle of conlflicting intelests -for val1lable
things, for what we call in its widest senFse wealth.
But is all stru le fol- wealth, competition ? If I h:zlock
you down with a sand-bag atld rob you, is that to be
called coulpetition ? If I fit out all armed sl-<ip anci
prey upon the comttlerce of the world, is that competition
? If I cheat you by a lie, are the lie and the
fraud part of the coznpetitive process ? The replr
' Plinciples of Political Economy, by C:llarles Gide, trallsl. loy iED. P.
Jacobsen. I892. P. 64.


### ---Economics-1901-0-05.txt---
CQ111CS 11atl1ra11Y9 "NQ, w7OU are now talking alDout
criminal and wront, actio<:z.:'
Bllt ;f it i.s not every strut,gle of conflicting interests
that is to 1)e dolaolllillated eo^llpeLitioll5 we see at once
that colnpetitioul i.s a .c3trll;,g-le which laas its metes a11d
1oollllcls. 1 t1<1llk we lntl.st say that tloe coZlpetitixe
stl-l<,-g-le SC; lilizited by collstittiollal and statute laNv.
It is a st-rllggle wl-lose lzollaclaries are -fiXed bx the .soeial
o-l witslwiXl vi1o fratnexvork of V11;C1l we live alzd move
a11<1 xercis o1tr :factlltie.s in tXle pursuit of a li\,elillood.
\Amen xve lent- this qualification il zzlillc1,.simple and
obviralls a.s it is) many difficulties beCi11 to valli.X;ll luce
OT, 113eX0rC tT1Le I^l<)i11Q, SU11. Aziallr a 11lal, svllell colupetiLiOl
1 iS i-mentioned, thinks of wild 1Deasts, tearing and
l-{3z-lclil-lb each other in a death strut,t,le for a11 insufficient
xllpply of food. But such is only an illcolplete and
inlperfeeit picture of the.strllgg-le for life, even along
the 4ss-ttlteSz aI-ld doeW<., not at all clescrilDe the struggle of
cotoopotofloll al-hong cis7i11Zed lnen.
But exrell wloell we call to 1lli llc1 the limitations
placad LIPO!1 t19 S1;rLI<Cr?DW1e Of COnSiCtiX1<C, economic interests
l)r the socia] ordel-, nTe clo not .-yet l-lave a sufificient
idea o- eco1l{)l:lic COIllpttitiOIl. It is essential that we
ac:kl aaother elelnellJc to Ot1r idea) in order to relacler it
more neally coaff3tLnable to z-eality. Mxle must brinb to
mind tlie gl-eat prilzciple of e>oltltior] W1liCll iS present
wllerevel there is iifee lfotllil-lg cotllci well be rnore
un.soientiSc in the lDresent a>-e of .science than to leave
eVO1Ut10n Ollt OX aCCOII11t il1 OUR eXa11Ii11ati(91101 anYt11i11g
so fllndal:lnutalilfll society as colrlletitiolz. \Alllat light,
tlleXl, c1oes 611e ^l-iilciple of evolution thl-ow upon
CO1uPetitiO11 ?

'IX11e StrEl<C51e fOr eYiStenCe a1110n(> t11e 10\Ver aniI11a1WS
11aS beCO1ne a COI111l1Ol1p1aCe Of InOder11 SCiel1tifiC t110Ught


### ---Economics-1901-0-06.txt---
and equally faIniliar are the selective processes of
natlll e, reslllti llg i ll the stlrvi val of those fittest for their
ellvirollInellt at a particular time and place. Not quite
so fclllziliar to all al-e other aslDects of 1lature's olletllocls.
Aftel- the aI)pearallce of JDal-XviIl's epoch-making lDook,
" The Origin ot Species," l:)iologists Erst brought otlt
tlae hard and cruel side of the strl.lt,gle for existence.
Rousseau's pictures of mild and benefice lt Nature were
replaced iil their clescriptiosls by the collcepticall of
Nature as ' led itl tooth and elaw rim ravill." Even
Htl-xler spoke of the allill-lal world as ot] about the
same level as a glacliatol-'s SllONV. ;; The cl-eattlres ", said
he "are fairly well treated and set to fight; wllerebr
the strotlbest, the sviftest, the clltzllinbest, live to fight
another clay. The spectator has 1lo need to turn his
tllllIlllD do.rn, as olO qllal-ter is ,iven." 1 Bllt it was tlOt
long before careful observation resrealed other axpects of
nature'>s processes. AIr. Alfred Rnssel MWallace long
ago called attelltiool to the comparitively painless
character of tl-le struggle among allilncals, and to the
lart,-e atllOtoIlt of happiole.ss in their lives. After reviesring
the ethical aspect of the stl-llgble for existence, he
expressed the opinion that it aSol-cls " the lnaximutn of
life and of tl]e enjoyment of life with tIle luillillltlln of
StlHetfillg aIld pain." 2 Wl-lell xwe xvatcll aailalal exi.ste1-lces
as a xvhole, and not i n exceptional moments, Ccm we
conclude otherwise? Bllt subsequent observel-s, going
further, have-called attention first to the fact that the
strl1g-<,le i.s not for life lllerelr, lout for tllC life of
otl1el^s. These otllel-s are first of all offslDril-lg, bllt later
ates atld colnpaniolzs. Again, attention has been
called to a.ssociatio1l and lnl1tual aid artlollg- anitnals as
l tfEle Struggle foz Bxistellce. lViotetee^th Ceez.tzzo , Febmary, I888.
2 Dal-XviniSlll, P- 40


### ---Economics-1901-0-07.txt---
part of the struggle for existence, and we have come to
see that co-operation atld the ability to co-operate are
powerful weapons, even in the competitive sub-human
struggle for existence.l
We must hasten on to the point where, as a result of
orgallie evolution, we have the emergence of luan.
Amont, prilllitize men competition seems at first to
take on more cruel forms than aInoIlg animals. Bllt if
evolution has apparently eolle back a £ew steps, it is
only to move forward tnigntily and ullceasillt,ly as
social evolution for the achievement of ends whose
gran(lelllX we as et bllt faintly apprehend. Competition,
begun far below mall with the rlerar lDeginnilags of life,
per.sists as one of the most fundamental laws of alliluate
existence, btlt evolution carries it to higher and ever
higher planes. Primitive competition illd lldes a Izarrow
circle of association azad, beyond that, slaughter for
economic advantat,e. With social evolution slaughter
bradllally recedes into the backt,-rouold alad falls below
coznpetition into tlae region of criIne. When luen considered
it clisllonorable to gain by the sweat of the broxv
what colllel be WOll by the sword, battle belollt ed to
economic cotnpetition; 1lot so in the at,e of industry.
Frolzo early times, and until recently, the competitive
social order found svithitl its frame-N^rork a place for
slaverZ; Tellt as a result of social evolution, continued
for ages, slavery falls below the plane of competition
and is now regarded as incompatible nvitll civilization.
Pil-acy, until a comparatisrely recent period of the
wol-ld's history, held an honorable place within the
' Consult the series of articles on Mutual Aid by P. Kropotkin in
TXte lMtoteteesttAt Ce1ztzs Y, September and November I890, April, I89 r,
and January, I892, August and Septetnber, I894, January and June,
I 896.


### ---Economics-1901-0-08.txt---
competitive processes whereby men secured ecolaomic
gain; 13ut tllaJc in turn lla.s falltll outside of and belosar
the social order of competition.
BUt since the beginning of this century, alolzg svith
the persistence and iolcreasillb intensity of cotupetition,
elerration of the pla;le of competition has kept pace
With tlae rapidity of .social evolution. The labor
of very youn, cllik3l-ell has beelzL o.ltlasred; the labor9
even of ,^1-0Rz711 lnen, has in many cases been restricted,
and ullwllolesollle conclitio-ls aild oppl-essive practices
in llllllllDerless instances have been put below tl-le plane
of com petiti on . WAle need not retrace tll is familiar
ground. A former pre.sidetlt of this Association, in one
of it.s early plll31icatiol-ls' (:leclared that one of the functions
of government is to raise the ethical level of CoHlpetitioll.
He sa7as lliaolself surprised to filad the impl-
essioo that the plirase pl-oduced. It produced that
profolll-ld illapressioll precisely because it is so pregnant
with meaning. The phrase is a t5T) opening mysteries
allel revealing reconciliations of science atld humanity.
We have alt-eacly mentioned the fact of association
among animals for mutual aid. Social evolution aInong
men reveals growth, association along with competition.
One essential feature of social evolutiola, in its lDearing
on competition, is the enlargement of the associated
competitive group. Here again the temptation to
trespass upon your patience is strong, but it tnust be
resisted. Many an address could be occupied entirely
with a discussion of the brouping of lnen within the
competitive social order. Thus sve earl find voluntary,
1 HeIlry C. Adattls, The Relation of the State to Iz-ldustrial Action.
Publications of the American ECOI1021iC ASSOCiatiO11, VO1. i, 110. 6N
January, I887, 1DP- 507-5O8.


### ---Economics-1901-0-09.txt---
looselvZ formed groups of eluployer.s pursllilag colulllon
purposes; and al.so groups of Rrol-kil-gollen likewise
seeking to promote common interests. Agailn we notice
a permanent organization of labor on the OI1t hand
and of capital on the other. Then we discover political
association.s embracing zalitlli n themselves all illSllite
variety of competitive ^rollps; and the.se political associations
tl-lemselves having competitive features extend
from the szlall l-lamlet to the illiolaty lzatioll. T3ut coln
?etitioll does not stand alone. WAlitll it are associated
sympathy, benevolence, and plllDllc authority. Moreover,
wisely directed llulllallitariaoli.sm stren<gtllells each
group, while rutl-hess selfisla*1ess a<nong tile uleolll:)er.s of
the group gradually destroy s poaTer iil competition.
The larger the col-upetitixTe gl-OUp, the M7idel- becomes
tlae splle1-e for ,-enetovsity, -the la1-ger the safe scope of
pity, and the luilder May the coznpetition l)ecolne for
the individt1al. WAlittless nor tl-le progress of modern
nations in philanthropy attends groNTi11g efficiency in
their ecotlomio struggles. I1lterlaational coz;olpetition is
a stern fact of ollr tinoe. Is it 1lot eqv1al'y a fact that
the onost potent nations in this great drazozatic world
wide struggle of interests are precisely those natiolzs in
which sre find the l igllest inclisticltlal and social development
of altruism ? As.sociation aad coot)eratioll,
the healing touch, benevolence, love, are all compatible
nvitll competition.
Fear has sometimes been exlDressed lest the humanitarian
side of social evolution should lead to weakness
alzd cleo-enel-atioiz) and the avvorld lDe cons erted into
Goethe's vast hospital. Such apprellelesioll, I lDelieve)
does not rest UpOIl a critical analysis of the fol-ces at
work in tnodern civilization. It is true that l:enevo
lence) manifesteci in and through progress, may keep
alive sollae weak individuals, NV410 in a harsher age


### ---Economics-1901-0-10.txt---
would have perisaled, atld that these weak individuals
may take part in the propagation of the species, eventually
leaving behind an enfeebled progelay. Bllt with
all its milcllless, civilization lessells unfit reproduction,
and, upon the nvhole, cloe.s so to all ever-ilacreasing extent.
It puts the feeble-minded in aswlums, and discourages
the Inarl-iage of paupers; vllile in its new attitude
towards tl-le criminal classes it shoNrs an increasilog
inclination to detain them until it receives ex idellce
that their malacly is cured. AXIol-eover, by sanitation
anct other measures, luoderll cinrilization il-lcreases tl-le
stren<$-tll al-ld vigor of those Nllo do survive. Comparisons
of civilized men with sasZages and xTVritll semi-civilized
peoples, rexreal the superiority of the foruler in
physical vigor. It is prolalDle that never in the world's
history have there been men and women whose aerage
of efficient strength in the economic sphere was so great
as that of the well and srolnell who today inhabit German,
Blltland, and the United States of America.
Competition is the chief selective process in modern
economic society, and tllrollt,-h it we lla;e the surxistal
of the fit. But s^that clo ve mean by " the fit " ? Msle
all knosar today that fitness 1laS reference simply to conditions
of a particular time and place. Bold and aggressive
pirates avere at one time fit -for survival9 but
no^r they are likely to coone to an 1lntimely and i-llomilliolls
end. AIoderll society itself establishes, consciously
or unconsciously, many of the conditions of the
struggle for existence, and it is for societr to create such
economic conditions that only desirable social qualities
shall constitute eminent fitlaess for survival. A kind of
society is possilDle, in which the beggar has this fitness,
svhile the conditions in another society nlay be most Unfavorable
to the growth of parasitical classes.
The socially established competitive methods and the


### ---Economics-1901-0-11.txt---
socially established ends to be attained b5J competition
deterluille the kind of men who will survive il] competition.
Let lne offer an illustration. To-clay the
civil service of the modern nation fllrllislles all opportzlIlity
for a livelihood to a considerable percelltat,e of
tl-le population. Competition for admission to the civil
service in order tllerebv to secure a support is fsDllud
when ore have the so-called spoils s) stem, and the CON1-
petition is intense and frequently bitter. This coonpetiti
5.7e contest issues in the stlrival of lnen with qualitites
lcnowll to llS all. Civil service reforul does .lOt remove
competition; on the cos]trary it extellels coltlpetil;ioll,
hll-t the dift'erence in methods produces corresponclilzg
differences in results. On the one llallel, the extension
of competition lessells bitterness, because it is luore in
in collsonallce with otlr ethical demand :For equality of
o?portllllity, and the difference in competitive tests for
succes;s, issues in the stlrvirral of nlen with qualitites of
another sort from those which come to the top utacler
tll£ spoils sstelll, and with qualities, luost of lls will
sa, of a higher killel.
Competition increasingly comes to mean worthy
struggle, and true progress implies that success will be
secured llel-eafter b5J conformity to higher and ever
hig-ller, l]obler and ever jlobler ideas.
SiTr..@lfred Rlls.sel \Alullace alad Professor Ivester F.
WAlard have called attention to the sl1periority of man's
selection to llatt-lre's selectiool. Professor Ward has
thus e=xpressed the idea: " The economics of nature
consists, mel-efOl-e, essentially in the operation of the
law of competition in its purest form. The prevailing
idea, llosrever, that it is tl-le fittest possible that survive
in this struggle is wholly false. The effect of competition
iS to prevent ally form from attaining its maximum
development, and to maintain a comparitively low


### ---Economics-1901-0-12.txt---
level for all forms that succeed in surviving. This is
made clear by the fact that wherever competition- is
wholly removed, as through the agency of man, in the
interest of any one form, that fortn itnmediately begins
to make great strides and soon outstrips all those that
depend UpO11 cornpetition. Such has been the case
with all the cereals and fruit trees; it is the case with
domestic cattle and sheep, with horses, dogs, and all the
forms of life that lzlan has excepted from the biologic
law and subjected to the law of mind, aold both the agricultural
and the pastoral stages of society rest upon the
successful resistance which rational man has offered to
the law of nature in these departments. So that we
have now to add to the waste of competition its influence
in preventing the really fittest frotn surviving." '
While in general re tnust agree with Professor NAlardj
I do not think that the process which he describes is to
be called the suppression of competition, but rather a
regulation of competition by the mind of man. It
means the establishment of the environment and the
selection of the plants and anitnals for survival on the
pre-arranged environment.
If the foregoing considerations are possessed of validity,
we can readily see one of the tests to which we must
submit proposed measures of social amelioration. A
good social measure must strengthen the individual and
the group for competition. On the other hand, the test
of a bad condition is that it weakens individuals and
groups, in the competitive struggle. Iwet me offer a single
illustration.

In New York City a Tenement House Commission
has been investigatilzg the housing of the poorer classes
in that city. Dr. Edward T. Devine, Secretary of the
' Outlines of Sociology, pp. 257-8.


### ---Economics-1901-0-13.txt---
Charity Ol-gAlliZAtiOll SoCiety Of Ner York, testiZed
belol-e the COlUlili.SSiOIl RS follow.S: " There is tnucll cle.stitiltiOll
dil-eCtl5T due to overcroxTwdilag, to the lack of
light ad air, and to infected vans, ceilin<, and floors.
The experience of the agent.s aoltl risivol .s of the Charity
Oranizatioll Societwr conErnzs ^That; lDllysicialls have
said in regard to the danger frozn tuberculosi.s and other
disSe.SeS. True CllaslCeS Of recoN7ery al-e STIC41 leFss because
of the 1 acL of vitalit!r dlle to the unfavorable
phxsical coticlitions under RT1licll the people are obliged
to live." t Here our test reveals a thoroughly bad Competitive
condition. Btlt) otl the other hand, D1-. Devine
stated that, " WAlllile the commission znibllt not be able to
devise lawFs that would directly lower rollts, it xarotlld lDe
po,.5ilD1e t0 provide for <,-reater decency and com-fol-, and
for more of the conclitiolas that make for life and health,
without necessal-ily increasing l-ellts." ' M\le see in this
last stlt,g-estioll confol-lllity to the tests of a desirable
oneasure of social leform.
If our analysis is correct7 it clearly follows that COU1-
petition is a permanent feature of hun-lall society. It
begins with the lowest orders of alliluals and contiIlues
its action among the highest ol-ders of well. But it continually
mounts to higher and higher elevations, and
means rivalry-for ever better and better things. We
leave behind conLests for bare subsistence to ez1gage in
contests for noble prizes of the znind and fol--opportunities
for social service.

\Ve can, thel-l, npver allow competition to cease. Combinations
of labor and combinations of capital mav expand
freely, so long as these colubillations mean mel-ely
association and co-operation. Btlt when combinations
1 CZzz^fies, the official organ of the Charity Ol-ganization Society
of New Yol-k, December I, I9OV, p. I8.
2 Ibid., p. Ig.


### ---Economics-1901-0-14.txt---
neall monopoly, either coznpetitiorl mt1st be restorecR or)
WlleTe this iS i1npo.ssible, the eolds of cotupetitiotl must
be secured by other 1netTloc1s of- social cooltrol; a1ci if
these 1lletllod.s of social COll trol in sotne cases 1nean
plll)lic owllel ship a1ld 1nallagetllel1t of illclustl-ies, a place
must be opeolec1 for the competitive principle in the
terlus of ad1nission to public employment.
It is at this point i1z2portaolt to make a clisti11ction to(3
ofte1l overlooked; o1all1el, the radical cli-fTeretlce between
that socialilstic extension of govel-nlnental activity wllid
has in RlieW the >'.llppl-tSSiOll of competitiol1, and that con
servative deLlla;]d for all extension of gover1-lllaental acw
tivity which has in view the 1nailltellallce of co1lapetitio11.
There are certain conditions of sloccess in co1npetition
which 1zlally ecol10tnists believe can110t be supplied illdiVidllAllV,
lDllt lllElSt be furnished by collective action.
Irrialtioll oriars all illustration. It appoars to be the
general opinion of careful stl1clellts of irligation, that tl-le
laws of iDrivate prope1-ty applied to srater ltsed for pltrb
poses of irritation, Ultimately produce cessation of COlllpetitio
1l; in other words, 1llollopols; and that as a con
ditio1l of peronaoletlt and wholesome competition along
with associated efforts, large plzblic activity is reql1ired
i ll the sl1plDly of water. A rece1lt uTritel uses these
words, a1ld as I t1llclerstalld it, he simply voices the con
seolsl1s of opinion alnotlt, experts. " In the vast majol-ity
of i 1lsta1lce.s, and over the lal-ger portio11 of the arid
rebioll, costly works will be required, and these can only
be sllpplieel lDy some fo1-1ll of plzblic e1lte1-prise. The
divideolcls t1lDol-l the i1lvestlnetlt must lDe loolSed for, not
in the strong boxes of security-holders, but irl the in
crease of 1latiollal wealth, in social progress and in
economic baiols." 1 If this statement is col-rect, we who
1 lililliam E. Smythe on The Struggle for N\Tater il-l the West.
AtlatzZic HlotstAzly, Novel-Ilber, 1 900.


### ---Economics-1901-0-15.txt---
believe in colupetition must, in order to secure the CO11-
clitiolls of its maintenance, ask for lart,er govelnIllelltal
activity in matters of irrig-atioll.
I retret that I call clo I10 lI]Ore llel-t aIlCl llOlV mall
nerely to allude to t;wo somewhat a ntagol-listic lines of
evolution. One is the Ilaovelnellt which approaclleswi
mont hope of evel reaclli llg-l-eal equa] i ty of oplDorttlnities
in economic competition. This is one of the
l-nost porelful lllovelnelltvs of the century just drawing
to a close allci must be borne clearly in mind by any
one who would understand the great llistol-ical move
nlents of that centl1ry. The other line of clerelolDnlent
is found in the construction of great institlltiolas wllid-l
shut in and limit colnpetitio-l, T)llt oTllicll nevertheless
are the very foundations upon Nallicll our civilization
rests; the institutions \0Jllicll may be likened to social
savings balllSs or de?ositories of l-ace-achievements. I
have l-lere in mind the t,-reat ecollollaic°jtlriclical instittl
tiOllS of society, such as private property, inheritance of
property and vested interests. The probressive appl
oxilllation to equality in opportunities must not be
perlxrlitted to bo so far as to ul-ldel-ll-line these illStitUtiOI-S.
In the lnul;ual adjustments of these two lines of evolution,
namely, the equality of opporCtlnity movement
and the institutional movements, nre have given us one
of the weit,lltiest atld at the same time most delicate
tasks of the twentieth century.
Cozupetition thus conceived is beneficent! and the
competitive order rightly controlled by society furllishes
to tnen the maximum of pleasure with a minimum of
pain. Not only does it insure progress for the race, lDllt
to an increasing extelat all lnen participate in the benes
fits of this progress. \Ale have ilO evidence that tl-le
colupetitive order is ultra-rational, and still less need
we believe that it is anti-rational, as Mr. ILidd asserts,


### ---Economics-1901-0-16.txt---
inasmuch as in his view it is opposed to the interests of
the ,reat mass of well who, he vllinks, quietly submit
to this social order, on account of the social force in relit,
-ioll Vilicll bids tl-lem clo so. Religion Slas quite a
di-gel-ellt office to t3erforlll, for its office is rat;her to raise
competition to higher planes and to t-llilagle rith it in a
harInoIliouvs ?:)lend, slnpathy and love, without by any
aleans clisplacine, collllDetitioll itself.
Coluzetitiotl t;ives llss a b1-ave, stl-ong race of meo-z,
and the brave and Istrolito are merciful.
It has lDeetl rell said that as organic evolution bives
us mall, so social evolution gives the ideal luall.l Btlt
ecoSlolllic competition is atl e.ssential eonstituent of that
social evolution which is proclacillt, the ideal man; and
with comptitioll are tninoletl other lSe>,lllative prillciles.
PsycholoCically, the ego and the alter ego, self and
other self, arise t3t,ether; ecoololllically they engage in
many a conflict, bllt tl-zeir spheres of i1lterest are never
entirely antagonistic to each other in the struggle for
life. The ebo tlleself- -elalart,es the sphere of its selfhood;
and this ridellillb and deepeninb goes on until
the Christian ideal of llutnanity is at last attained.
Bllt the vlpsrard struggle is part and parcel of the
attailltxlent o-f idea.lss; and, ribhtly conceived, elevated
to a sllffieiellt llei>-lat, this sstrubgle iol econotnic life
means competition; it tnealls rivalry in the service of
self and otl-ler selves rivalry in the vlpbuilding of the
ideal mull in tile ideal society.
l Joseph Le CDonte OI1 'lfihe Bffect of the tRheory of Evolution o
Edtlca ion. Proceedings of the National Educational Associa+ion,
I 895 -
 ## Economics-1901-1


### ---Economics-1901-1-01.txt---
The onovement in this country for college and university
training for the futul-e business man seems to
have entered within the last year or two upon a new era
in its history. Twenty years ago, when I first began to
insist that our business classes stood in need of higher
special or professional educatiol], and that this education
should be given in ollr colleges and universities,
my voice was like that of one cryiIlg in the wilderness
ullheeded either ly the business world, on the one hand,
or by the college svorld on the other.l
Even up to within ten years only one institution of
high rank had lDeen found willing to move in this direction
and to accord a half-hearted and timid support to the
idea. To-day, at lea.st a dozen of ollr leading institutions,
and in this list one-half dozen of tile most prominent institutions,
have decided to organize departments whose
primary function is that of furnishing a higher training
for commercial life.
The Unixersity of Pennsylvania lead the way nearly
twenty years ago by the astablishment of the Wharton
School of Finance and Econoxny in I88I, though the
real work was not begun until I883.°
The University of Chicago, altizough its original annOUllCeInent
in I892 included the schetne of a College of
of Practical Affairs, did not carry out the plan untilJIlly I,
l CC. List of zzlollographs addresses, etc., on higher comulercial
education appended to this paper.
2 Cf. Note I p. I62.


### ---Economics-1901-1-02.txt---
I898, when it opened a College of Commerce and Politics.
The University of California began similar work in its
College of Commerce in August, and the University of
Ohio ir] September of the same year. ColulnbiaUlliversity
worked out a plan for a four-years' college
course in the year I899, which will be put into work-
-ing operation as S0011 as funds can be obtained. In
the year I 9V0 the following institutions inaugurated
the work: Dartluouth College, in the Amos Tuck
School of Adluinistration and Fi nance; the University
of Vermont, in its Department of Commerce
and Economics; New York University, in its School
of Commerce, Accounts and Finance; the University
of AIiciligan, in its Special Courses in Higher
Commercial Education and Public Administration; and
the University of Wisconsin, in its School of Cozzlmerce.l
The University of Illinois has requested the legislature
for an anl-mal appropriation of $I7,500 to defray the expenses
of such a department, and it is announced that
the University of Iowa will make a similar request.
Now what is the real force underlying this movement
and what is the cause of this sudden, and to many people,
unexpected acceleration within the last three years ?
Vii=hat ground is there to suppose that this progress is to
continue in tl-le future ?
The explanation of this remarkable advance is found,
-in nly opinion, in two circumstances-a growing recognition
on the part of our colleges that there is a wide
and unexploited field open to them, which it is their
duty to occupy and cultivate, and at the same time a
growing demand for higher education in our business
classes themselves and a consequent turning of their attention
toward the existing centers of higher education
1 Cf. Note 2, p. I63.


### ---Economics-1901-1-03.txt---
as a natul-al plaee to find aid and eomfort. It is only
another formulation of the same proposition, a sort of
synthesis, so to speak, of these two elements, when we
say it is the ollteollle of a rising standard of edueation in
gel]eral in the community at large, and of all inereasing
lDelief in the value of a speeial, teellriieal, professional
edueation in all departments in N7hieh sueh training ean
be of use.

TIle general tetldelley thus deseribed l-las shown
itself of late in all eivilized eoulltries alike; England,
Franee, Germany, Belgium, Austria, ete. The new
Teaelling Ulliversitr of :London has reeognized the
existence of this need in modern English soeiety and
provided for its satisfaetioll by establishing a separate
and cli.stinet faelllty.2
TIle U^niversity of I+eipsie has approved the experiD
ment by aeeordill, a valuable and strikil-]g reeot,nition
to this movement.3
Belgium has giell the Inoxrelllellt a legal status by
providing for sellools of Commercial Seiellees in tvvo or
three of its universitie.s, allel by raising the Colnollereial
Institute of Antwerp to the rank of a University Faeulty.4
1 Cf. no. to in list of ulonographs, etc., l-elatilng to comlllel-cial
educalioll appended to this article.
2 The Univel-sitJ7 of London Act of I898 and the Statutes made for
the University of London by the Conlulissiollers appointed under the
said act (prizIted Fehrtlartr I6, I900), provide for a special Faculty of
Economics and Political Science (including commerce and industry).
Tl-Lis faculty in its oz-igillal form consisted of tell members.
Cf. also Regulatiolis ulade for the Univea-sity of London by the
Commissioners under the University of London Act of I898. (Printed
MAl-Ch I st, I 900 ) .
3 Cf Erster Jahresbericht der Ha.lldelshochschule zu Leipzig.
Leipzig I899.

4 Cf. Ecole des Sciences Commerciales et Consttlaires. Universite
Catholique de Lvuvaill. Louvain I900. Also: Universite de Lieges
Bstraits des dispositiolls legislatives, etc. Liege I900. (page 57).


### ---Economics-1901-1-04.txt---
If other European eolllltries have not as yet given as
distinet al] endorsement to the vie-v that ulliversites
should undertake this fl1l1etioll, it is largely beeallse of
the existenee il] those eoulltries of eertaill high bracle
eolnInereial colleges, whieh satisfy the cielllaIld fairly
well, and beeause of the heavy-footed gate of their universities
in general when any illnovavion is proposed.
With 1ls, on the eontrary, eireumstallees are dif:erent.
OI1 the one hand we llad and have no separate eomlllereial
sehools of high rank; that is, of college or university
grade; and on the other, Olll- colleges and universities
are in a position to respond more quiekll to speeial
public oleecls thal] those of Europe. Olla system of
higher edlleatioll has many defeets, but one of its advantages
lies in its elose toueh with the eomll-lon life of
the people. Tlli.s acts in sozne waTs as a llilldrallee,
sinee it tell(is to lceep the intelleetual level of the institution
near that of the averabe ol; the eomo-nullity; and
this .sometimes means near to a clead level of meclioerity.
Bllt the scheme has at any rate the virtue of its clefeets.
The steatly and eontinlled dependenee upon the public
for funcxs makes these institutions qlliekly responsive
to tTle real needs of the eomluunity. Our device
of governing boards --non-expert boclieEs of business and
professional <lenrellclers this eontaet between the peoZ
ple and higher institutions all the easier and more
vital, and through these boards responsible directly or
indirectly for tlhe funds necessary to keep the institutions
going-tile life blood of the community CAll pulsate
into the very arteries of college and university life;
thus, to some extent, preventing that stiffeninC and
exclusiveness, that Pl-lariseeisrn, which is t]le ever present
danger of all higher institutions of learning, and
especially of those which are self-governing bodies.


### ---Economics-1901-1-05.txt---
As a result of this and other circuz-nstances, it comes
about that every Arnerican institution is compelled to
ask itself " Atn I doing for the community all that can
be reasonably expected of me? " " Am I working
properly the whole field which naturally belongs to nle
and which I must work if the highest interests of the
community are to be subserved ? "
In answel- to this question, kept perpetually before
our higher institutions, among other forces, as already
suggested, by the chronic need of luoney characteristic of
them ole and all, we have seen an unexpected and enor
mous expansion of our American college and university
system. It was natural that when the college began to
emerge into the university it should unclertalze first of
all to provide for the education of those cla.sses, which
by long tradition in the Old World had come to look
upon the universities as their institutions par excellence5
viz., law9 rnedicine, and theology. The profession of
teaching was taken care of, partly by the fact that many
of the pO.SitiOllS were filled only by clergylnen, and
partly by the fact that the columunity was long satis
fied with the incidental preparation for teaching, which
a man could obtain by completing the ordinary college
courEse. With the development of gl-acluate schools the
profession of teaching received its special faculty. In
the meantime, the university was developing in other
directions) ViZ.9 those of offering special training for the
dentist, veterinary surgeon, farmer and engineer, and
thus a large number of new callings was brought within
the charmed circle of those for shose preparation the
university existsO

It vas plain to the student of education that if there
was a class left in the colunlunity whose members
needed or desired special higher training, and for whom


### ---Economics-1901-1-06.txt---
a special course could be wolked out of college character
and college grade, calculated to assist them in
their future careers, such a class was sure sooner orlater
to be considered as propel-ly belong-ing to the
clientele of the university.
Such a class exists to-day in the enormous number
of lnen engaged in various bralclles of T)usilless in the
United States, for which a higher training is useful or
indispensable. It was, therefore, a matter of logical
necessity for the university to read-l Ollt and try to
satisfy the legitimate demands of those classes, under
penalty of seeing itself shut ollt from that reasonable
influence over their lives and careers, which belongs to
the organization affording the professional training of
ally class, and in addition perhaps of seeing a new kind
of institution grow up, svhich, in answering the demal-ld
for this training, would divert from the university untold
sources of strength and power.
Of course, this result was not reached in the unisrersity
itself without grave contest. It was asserted, with
a certain show of reason7 that there was no need of
offering any new facilities in this direction, since the
public was satisSed with the existing opportunities.
This was proved by the fact that there were already
young meh taking the old college course, or at least
pursuing studies within the wide limits of the new
elective system, who were looking forward to going into
business, and that they seemed srell satisfied with the
course that they were taking; that, in a word, for this
callint, as had been claitned in regard to so many
others, the proper training was simply the traditional
literary and historical education, luakillg its subjects
first o:E all well educated ,relltlelnen, aIld then trusting
to them to Make their way in the business world by the


### ---Economics-1901-1-07.txt---
aid of that developed and disciplined intellect, which
the severe traillino- of the present courses secures. Ful--
tllenllore, it was doubtful whether it was a good idea
for a young l.lall to go to college who intended to go
into business, since he would be wasting on college
benches the very years he needed tnost for learning t1le
details of his future calling; and Inore important than
all, there was I10 well defined curriculuIn, which a college
could conscientiously recommend to a young Inan
as wol-th his xvllile to take, at a11 similar in eharacter to
the courses in law, medicine, or theology.
These al-gllments, combined with the lack of money
to llnclertalce new functions, have kept Most of our institutions
frozn orgaz:lizint, such departments up to the
present.

The ansu7er vo the first al^gllzzlellt is siIlople. The fact
that there are many lnen who take now a college course
and then gO into business, it iS claimed, I lJelieve, that
over 30 per ceIlt. of the Yale graduates clo, as a luatter
of fact, go into cotnlllercial life does not prove that
tlaese men prefer such a course to one bettel adapted to
their needs; and still less does it prove that tl-lere are
not hundreds and thousands of young men in ttle country
who do not at present go to college at all) bllt nvho
would go if they felt that tllev could get something of
more ;z-lllllediate lDellefit to them than the old-fashioned
curricula) or the old-fashioned studies. It is c30u1Dtless
true that if the only higher illStit11tiOll in l;he cotntnullity
were a law school, tnanwr young men would take this
course) elrCll tlaollC 1l tneir purpose were to practice medicine;
ltLt this does IlOt prove that a law school is
the best) or even a good coursW of preparation for medici
2le, 1lor that the demand :ror medical education is fully
omet by the lar school.


### ---Economics-1901-1-08.txt---
I 5 I

Tlais argument has, however, a certain practical weight
and is llearcR most often, perhaps, al:hong business men
thetnselves. It is, llowes7er, the satne old objection mich
has been raised at,ain.st higher education in every clepartrnellt,
viz.: that young men should begin with the
A, B, C, of the business or profession in practical life
rather than svaste tlaeir time on theoretical courses in
college. The old-fashioned svay to study medicine was
to begin by harnessing up the doctor's horse, as he preparecT
to go his rounds, following this up by taking
medicine to the patients, and vasllillg and cleaning the
mortars and pestles used in their preparation. The lawyer
began by eopying papers, and the merchant by
sweeping Ollt the snop; the book-lDinclillg apprentice, b),r
washing the dinner dishes for tl-le housewife, etc. But
this idea has alreadr been g-ivell up iu the case of cel--
tain important callings, and tnust gradually disappear in
the case of tnany others.l
As to the secoold point, tl-lere is undoubtedly sozne
danger that the young well wl-lo spend from seven to
eight years in the study of Ivatin, Greek and mathematics,
(>r even in the study of French and Gertlan, and natural
science, may acquire, if not a taste for literary callings, at
least a distaste for mercantile life. But this does not t,)rove
that the pursuit of a llighel- course of study, which sl-loulcR
be related more closely to their future xvork w0111d have
the same effect. The study of the history and methods
of insurance, for example, in all their different aspects,
need not of itself destroy all interest of young
men in the business of insurance as a practical career;
on the contrary, it would very probalDly inerease the
lC:f. no. II in the list of monographs, etc., on commelcial education
appended to this paper.


### ---Economics-1901-1-09.txt---
student's interest itl the subjeet, and the knowledge of
its wider bearings might well lighten the burden of its
routine, as well as sharpen the intelleet in its pursuit,
and in so far qualify the eanclidate for even the more
teehnieal sides of the work.
As to the third objeetioll on the part of college men,
that there is no well reeognized eurrieulum whieh ean
with a good eonseienee be reeomnlenclec1 to a young tnan
as likely to qualify him better for his bush-less life9 we
must admit that this proposition has been true down to a
eomparatively reeent period, and is even yet in large measure
true. But this has been the ease in the early history
of all professional and teehnieal stucRy. Compare the
eurrieululll of the law sehool at Harvard to-clay with
that of the first law sehool in the eountry, or the present
medieal sehool in Harvard with the beginning of this
sehool a eentury ago, or present day teehnieal training
with the eurrieulum for the first sehools of teehnology.
We have not, it must be admitted, worked out as yet
any body of doetrine or group of studies, theoretieal or
praetieal, whieh will eompare favorably with the systel-n
applied to law, medicine, theology or eng-ineering.
But we have at least the beginning of sueh a eurrieululll,
and, even, as it is, a eourse worth the while of young
men to take who desile to learn something of the history
and wider bearings of their future earnings; indeed,
something whiell it is worth their while to take as a
mere element in a liberal edueation, if nothing else.
And in any ease, we must begin at sol-ne time to work
out sueh a eurriellluln, and wl-ly not now as well as ever ?
But the present remarkable development has eome
about not only beeause our colleges anc1 universities
have begun to reaeh out, c1riven by the law of their own
internal development, to enter this new and unoeeupied


### ---Economics-1901-1-10.txt---
field, but the business world on the other hand, has begun
to feel the neec1 of such traillil1g aIld to turn naturally
toward the great eellters where other earnings and
profession.s l eeeive help. It was a Philadelphia merehant
and marlufaeturer x^ho first proposed to a leading
institt1tioll the desirability of supplying this need and
offered to assist it finalleially in organizing the work.l
Allc1 it was tl-le Ameriean Bankers' Assoeiation, wllieh,
attraeted by the un denying thought and idea of the
XVharton Sel-lool of Fillanee and Econol-ny, first 11rged in
a powerful and effeetive way on ollr higher institutions
the desirability of organizing similar departments at
other pOi1ltS in the eov1ntrs.2
It has been, as a rule, business men who have stood
behind the movement, either as endowers of sehools or
departments, or members of boards of trustees, in sueh a
way that the efforts of those eollebe men who believed
in the movement eot1ld be made effieient. Notably in
the movement at Columbia, whieh it is true has not as
yet resulted in the aetual establishment of a department,
it was the New York Chamber of Comtneree whieh supplied
the energy neeessary to earry it to its present development.
3

Now I take it that this has eoone about from several
different eauses. In the first plaee, sueeessful business
men desiring that their sons slloulel sueeeed them i n
business, yet desiring also that they should beeome
' Cf. Plan of the Virharton School submitted to the trustees of the
University of Pennsylvania by Joseph Wharton, Esq., Philadelphia,
I88I .

2 Cf. Education of EBusiness Men, I, II, III, IV, American Bankers'
association, I 89 I-I 894.
9 Cf. Report of the committee of foreign commerce of the Chamber
of Commerce of the State of New York, on the subject of commercial
education . New York, I898.


### ---Economics-1901-1-11.txt---
educated men of the world, as well as successful business
tnen, felt that the old curriculum did not offer the sort
of thing whicla they wished. The; clid not see why
their sons cotllci not be learning something bearing on
their future business svllile acquiring a liberal education.
Various attempts have leen macle to satisfy this
difficulty in different vays, and lately the AlnericaI-l
Bankers' Association has drafted a scheme for higher
eCiIICatiOIl in the principles and practiee of banking for
clerks atld officers connected with banking in.stittltiollss.l
The sal-he plan has been sug^e-estecR to the railwavs of the
coulotry for advallceci courses ila the lDrincil)les and practice
of trallspol-tatiotl for then- ellaployes9 Alad thus
the business svorld i-las shown, in more cli-rectiolls tlaall
one, a growing feeling of the need of some .SUC}1 OplDOrtUIlity
for higher col-nlnercial traillizag.
Anothel- call has come from many parents, a number
growing more rapidly everr clay, who are able and svillillg
to send their sons through the secondary schools,
and would like to sselld them through the lligllel schools,
if the latter could offer them a curriculum pl-eparillg
more directly for business thaIl the literary courses
which are considered the chief feature of our present
college curriculum. this call is lsecon-ling more and
more imperative.

\Ve should miss another importaz-lt element if we
did not call attention to the fact tl--lat busine.ss well
themselves ale each clay becoming luore clearly aware
that lack of suitable education is one of the most serious
defects in their elllployts, and that a proper training
1 Cf. Address by W. C. Cornwell, President of the City National
Bank, Buffalo.

2 Cf. Address by Walter G. Berg, Chief Engineer of Lehigh Valley
Railroad.


### ---Economics-1901-1-12.txt---
would inerease greatly their value to them, and consequently
to the eolnonullity.
:\/Toclern business is beeoming more comples and requires
a higher order of talent and a hiCher degree of
preparation in order to seellre sueeess than ever before.
Our business then are eolning to see that in the great
world struggle for trade and industry, that nation will
slleeeed best other things beilag equal- wllieh has provided
for the most eareful and eolllplete system of edueation
adequate trainiIlg for all the national talent of
every kind aIld ila sueh a system opportunity for higher
COllllllel-Cial training must also be ineluded.
It is only another way of statilag tl-le truth eontailled
in the above proposition when I say that this cleveloplnelat
has eolne about through a rising standard of
eclueatioll in tl-le eollllllUolity as a whole and a growing
aIiDreeiatioll of the slalue of speeial training for speeifie
callings.

The modern wolld insists, as never before, that the
elasses aspil-in a to leadership in any department of life,
shall be eclueated and ellltivated. The inereasilog
wealth of soeiety resllltvs in a nesr demand for the things
wlliel-l wealth eall help provide, and among these, higher
ecllleatioll- intelleetllal, moral, esthetie. The business
elasses are to-clay ruling nc)t only our orn soeiety, but
that ot Burope, to a treater extent than ever before.
It wa.s formerly the orator, the<o-eneral, the priest, the
noble, who led and governed soeiety and srere tl-le
models for the youth of the eollllnullity. It i.s to-day,
the g-reat banker, the railroad resident, the mallufaetul-
er, the treat lnerel-lant, the great business organizer
in ang,- clireetion, who eontrols our life Inore and more.
With their accumulating xvealth, they feel the necessity


### ---Economics-1901-1-13.txt---
themselves of higher edlleation, and soeiety demands it
of them as never before.
There is, moreover, a growing belief in the effieaey
of professional ecltleation and speeial training as a
valuable or indispensable elen-zent in the preparation of
the young man for l-lis future ealling. A eentllry ago
almost nolDocly in tl-lis comm-y thought of the 1leeessity
of sellool training for any calling or profession. Tl-le
lawyer, pllyrsieian, elergylllall, engineer, farmer, teaeher,
sought his preparation, not in sonce tecllllieal school,
but in the offiee, the study, the store, the shop, the field.
To-clay the vietory of the srell-planned currieululn over
the llapha%ard training of the shop, the faetory, the
offiee, the store or the farm, is well assured, and it is
only a question of time when the same thing will be
true of l-nerean tile and eolllmereial life also. l
Sueh is a lDrieE description of the present eondition of
the question as to what is the relation of the college and
university to higher eommereial training. It is also an
explanation, and to a eertain exteIlt, a justifieation, of
the development wllieh has thus far taken plaee. All
examination of what has taken plaee up to the present
and a search into the eallses underlying- this development,
seemed to llle, on the whole, to lDe the most satisfactory
wa of setting forth my views upon this stlbjeet,
and I Inay I1OW proeeed to formulate Irly ideas in a little
more deEnite way, as to the present and future poliey,
and submit the result to your eonsideration.
I beliexe the Auleriean university ought to take the
same attitude toward the higher training of the future
merehant, railway or insuranee manager, as it has so
long taken toward the professional edueatioll of the
1 C:f. no. 5 in the list of Inollograplls on corzlmercial education appended
to this paper.


### ---Economics-1901-1-14.txt---
future lawyer, physieiall or engineer. In other words,
I believe it should reeogllize it as one of its ploper and
neeessary funetions to provide the best faeilities of whieh
it is eapable for this training, aIld I aIn happy to say,
that in l-ny opinion the question iS no longer whether
the Al-lleriean university shall take this attitude, but
simply lloev it ean reeognize this ftlnetion and earry it
out Inost efficiently and satisfaetoriln7.
The question as to wl-lat sllolllci be the fundamental
element in the higher edueation and training of the future
business mall, is to l-he eolllparatively simple. It should
be those branelles of seienee wlliell deal with the departments
of liNe to whiell business belongs. BusiIless
is, of eollrse, a soeial aIld eeonomie phenomenon, and
to sotne extent, a politieal one, aIld eollsequently the
study of the politieal and soeial seienees, using that
terIn in a large sense, is the Ilatural oeeupation of the
man who is prepariIlt, hionself for a business eareer.
I eallnot, of eourse, on this oeeasioll enter into an extended
diseussion of the partielllar brallelles whieh ought
to be inelllcled in such a eurrielllllm, but of all the
politieal and soeial seiellees, it seems to me that eeonomies
should be aeeepted as the fundamental element
in an7 shell eourse. It is just at this point that the interest
of this assoeiation is tBost intimately involved.
The seiellee of politieal eeonomy has the same relation
toward this whole department of edueation, as mathenlatllies
to the preparation of all engiIleer, or as physiology
or anatouly to lneclieal trainin>. It has, moreover,
the added advantage of beiIlg the most highly developed
of all these subjeets, theoretically or praetieally, botl-l as
a matter of seienee anci as a Inatter of pedagogy. The
mall nvho grapples in earnest with problems of eeonotnies
will seeure, if nothing else, a tnental diseiplille


### ---Economics-1901-1-15.txt---
ARmerican Economic Sssoci.tiooz.
which may well be compared with that whicla the study
of mathematics or other abstruse subjects may give.
This has been lny idea from the beginning, and I aln
gratified to find it substantiated atld developed theoretically
and practically in so many of the strictly university
departments which have been organized for this
purpose either in Europe or in the United States.
Political economy, theoretic or applied, includes, of
cour.se, a wide range of subjects, such as fizlance, banling,
insul-allce, etc.; etc., at least in tlleirgeneralaspects.
But I atll not content with the introduction of these
subjects alone. I l)elieve that all those slllDjects necessary
to all understanding of the complicated industrial
ulechanisln of modern life should be included witl-lin
such curriculum, coznlllercial geot,raplly, commercial law
and similar sulDjects.
I should go still fllrtllel-. I should accept any practi
cal subject which call be Inade a serious intellectual
pursuit, if by so doing, I could advance practical knowledge
and increase intellectual training. Thus, for instance,
the whole system of accounting, or as it is some
times called with a sneel-illg connotation " boolkeepinc,
" I should wake an element in all such curricula.
The theory of accounting is as strictly a scientific
subject as the theory of political economy itself, and
steady application to this subject offers a stimulatD
ing al-ld valuable mental discipline. It is, moreover,
an efficient meal-ls of presenting the facts of industrial
organization in a concrete and direct way. The study
of boolkeepillg brings to light, irl one form or another,
the deeper underlying problems in connection with the
organization o-f l:)usiness. The study of municipal
accolillts offers, for example, a direct road to understanding
the difficulties and the lllecllanistn of public


### ---Economics-1901-1-16.txt---
corporations. I would develop, in a word, so far as
possible the practical as well as the theoretical sides of
insurance, banking and similar departments of industry.
I Snd, among others, the foliowillg sul:jects already
offered in the curricula established in these new departnellts:
economic geography, history of coml-nerce, business
organization and management, commercial law,
transpol-tatioll, money and banking, ulaterials of commerce,
contracts, personal property, tlleol-y of accounts,
auditing, insurance, statistics, corporation finance.
I need not here go into ally further detail; I desire
oally to emphasize the fact that in my opinion any curriculum
for higher commercial education which does
ot give reasonable attelltiol-l to what might be called
the practical aspects of business life will not accomplish
the best results.

I am not only in favor of the universities undertalillg
this function of providing lligl1er education for business
rnell, bllt I am in favor of plltti21g these elements into
such a shape that a rollllg mall can feel that he is following
Ollt a s;57stel-Ilatic course of study while plll-suing
it. I believe also that the university should announce
in a definite forul that it proposes to offer a curriculum
for the benefit of those lnen expectiIlg to go into business,
exactly as it announces tl1at it l1as a laxv scl1ool
or a medical scl1ool. I make this statement because
some of our universities, which have ilg the xvide range
of their elective studies a g,reat many of these eleluents
svl1icll I have l-llentiolaed, refuse to regard it as desirable
to acld the other subjects which I have suagested, or
to call attention to the fact that they ofier facilities which
would be worth the while of oung rnen to take ad-
07alltage of, before entering upon their active business
liv es.


### ---Economics-1901-1-17.txt---
It seems to llle that it would be just as reasonable to
expect the average young man to select the subjects
without assistance which would be of special value to
him as eolnmercial training frotn a list of a thousand
elective courses, as it would be to expeet the young mall
looking forward to law to select in the same xvay the
subjects which would be of most advantage to him, if
these letal subjects xvere thrown into a pot along with
the rest. I believe that it is the duty of the university,
as such, to assist in educating the community to the clesirability
of taking higher professioleal and teehnieal
education; and one of the most efficient ways of doing
this granted that the university has undertaken this
function=-is to call attention to the Sact that it claims
to be doing that very xvork. The institution which offers
such facilities and does 1lot take the pains to inforl-
n the public of the fact is not, in uly opinion, doing
its duty toward the community. We college men sometimes
forget what an extremely small part we play today
in the life of the Ameriean people. To the average
American boy tTle college or university is still an Unknown
territory, with the mention of wllieh he eonnects
no very clefilaite idea. A!tally of tl-lel-n do not know
whether there be any university or not, or if there is
sueh a thing, svhat it is, and what its purpose. Bllt when
yoll tell the boy who has a notion that he woulel like to
be a physieiall, that the university orfers the ehallee to
learn how to beeome a physieiall, and if you tell the
boy \07:o would like to be a better fal-luer, that the university
offers faeilities for aequiring that added infomlation
and experienee he would like to have, the notion
beeomes definitely eoncrete to him, and he looks forward
with pleasure and zest to the idea of attending sueh an
institution. When yotl say to the boy who is going into


### ---Economics-1901-1-18.txt---
business that the university offers him the opportunity
to prepare himself for such work, you ^rill find that his
attitude toward the university will be an entirely new
one, and that an entirely new element of the community
- a most numerous and most important element- will
have been brought within the influence of the university.
The next important point relates to the form of organization
of this work and its integration into the
rest of the ullix7ersity system. I think there is little
doubt that this will vary with each institution and its
needs, and I think it is desirable that there should be
the utmost liberty in this respect for the fullest and
freest experimentation. My own feeling- based upon
thirteen years' experience in connectioIl with the \Alharton
School of Finance and Scollolny, i 1l which xve
tried many different schemes- is that the typical form
will be the regular four-years' course parallelint, the traditional
college course, but strongly inclining in spirit
and forlol, rather to the technical than to the literary
course.

Of the existillb departments, Pennsylvania, Chicago,
California, the Columbia sd-leme and the University of
Wisconsin, have adopted the four-year plan and each
with the exception of the Columbia plan offers as the
croxvn of the work a bachelor's degree. The IJniversities
of B/liclligan and Vermont have adopted in essence the
twoyear course, covering the last two years in college,
admitting all who have con-pleted the sophomore year in
any course in college; while Dartmouth college has
adopted a two-year plan, admitting. llowerler, only those
who have completed the juniol yeart thus making the
second year graduate in character.
And Ellally, if as President Hadley has told us in his
address before the Vanderbilt University at its recent


### ---Economics-1901-1-19.txt---
I 62

celebration, the chief purpose of the university or eolle-
e is not the imparting of information or the gis7ing
of a special or technical traillillgortlledeveloplllent of
scholars, bllt the securing of that breacith of view and
widened sympathy which is the result of the personal
intercourse of thousands of young meJl through a period
of thl-ee or four years vlllcler college azad university influence,
how vastly will tl-lis illflllellee for good in ever
direction be strengthened and incre-ased, wllel-l in ad
ditioll to the hllllclrecRs of lotllag l-nell in our colleges now
preparing for the professions we shall have otlle- him
dreds preparing for coulonercial life. And this will surely
be the case if the ulliversi tie.s recogIlize their duties
toward this great and growing class of our community.
If tl-le business classes are destined to have all ever-increasing
influence in ollr society 110W necessary it is for
public urelfare that as ollany members of these clas.ses as
possible small corne under the influence, for a longer or
shorter time, of those great forces which make llp ourmoclern
llnivelsity !

N0TH I.

THb =tVHARTON SCHOOW OF FINANCE AND ECON=OWIY.
The \Mhartoll School was foull(led in I88I. Its course ss7as at first
only two years, be^,inning n7ith the junior year in college. Its curriculum
sn7as colnpo.sed largely of the ordinary college subjects tau<ght
by ulen already appointed to teach ila the university. The e:xperilIlellt
naturallT failed, and there was talk of handing back the endowment
to Mr. Wharton, on the ground that there seemed to be no special demand
for such instruction. It was decide(l, however, to make a new
departul-e. Albel t S. Bones was appointed Professor of Mercantile
Law and Practice, in FebNzary, I883, and entrusted ssrith the organization
of the department; RolDert E,his Thomson sras retained as Professor
of Political Economy; Edmund J. James ssras called as Professor
of PulDlic Finance and Aclnlinistl-atioll; and John Bach McMastelo
as Professor of American History, political, constitutional and industrial,
both beginning work in DecemlDer, I883. A fleW era was


### ---Economics-1901-1-20.txt---
thus opened for the school, though the two-year curriculum, which
was open to students upon the coulpletion of the first two years in
co]lege, was retained.
01Vhen Albert S. Bones accepted a position in the State govertllalellt
at Harrisburg, Edmund J. Jatnes was entrusted xvith the practical administration
of the school, and later ap?ointed Director. For admission
to the cul-ricllluin, noser lengthened from two to four years, ssrere
demanded in general the same requisites as for the classical or technical
colleges. Many new courses +rere added, with a result of
strengthening and establis'ning the department more firmiy. Instrlletors
rvere appointed in the theory and practice of accounting,
transportation, banking, journalism, and other pl-actical subjects,
besides additional instructors in economics and politics. The fouryear
plan thus adopted by the NVhartoll School ilas lgeell accepted, as
indicated in the text, by most of OU1' institutions whid-l have undertaken
this xvork. As all evidence of the demand for this kind of instrtletion,
the fact may lDe stated, that while the \Alhartoll School
course is oIle of a large number of elective courses offered in the IJniversity
of Pennsylvania, it has a greater attendance than the average
of the courses. The follonvillg table shows the attendance from r895
to Igor

1 895 _ _ I I 3 I 898 _ _ _ _ _ f 87 I 90I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I 35
I 896 _ _ _ _ 97 I 899 - - - - 94
I Q97 _ _ IOI I900____ ____ I 25
NOTH II.

THb UNIVbRSItY OF WISCONSIN SCHOOt OF COMMbRC.
As indicative of the interest which the new departments have
created, the follovv7ing statement made lDy Professor William A. Scott,
Director of the new School of Commerce in the University of NVisconSill,
iS of interest:

" Highty-four students have registered in our School of Commerce
up to date. Of these, 6I are freshlmen, I7 sophomores, 3 juniors, and
3 specials. Of this total, 65 have come to the Univel-sity for the first
time this year, and I9 have transferred from some other courses in
the University. In order to find out exactly what proportion of the
students would have come to the University had not the School of
Commerce lDeen established, I sent a circular letter to each one aslzing
the three following questions:
I. NVould you have come to this University if the School of Commerce
had not been established ?
2. NVould you have gone to some other university if the School of
Commerce had not been established ?


### ---Economics-1901-1-21.txt---
3. If you vould have entered this University in any case, svhat
course would you have taken if the School of Commerce had 1lot beela
established ?

I received replies from every one of the students, +^Tith results as
follo+^rs:

Twenty-sis reply that they would not have entered this or any
other university had not the School of Comulerce been established.
They would have gone instead directly into business. Three are Uncertain,
but state that they zTould have probably taken a special
course in sozne college or university, selecting such studies as xvould,
in then- opinion, best prelDare them for business. Of the remainder,
24 xvould have entel-ed our College of Letters and Science, g the Civic
Historical course, 8 the General Science course, 5 the English course,
2 the Modern Classical course. O-f the remainder, 6 +^rould have en
tered the Engineering School, 4 the Law School, and 2 the College of
Agriculture. I interviewed the I2 last mentioned students, and discovered
that in every case they srould have taken the Engilleerillgy
the Iva+r, or the Agricultural course, not because they wished to make
themselves engineers, lamryers or farmers, but because in the opinion
of themselves or their fathers, these courses furnished a better preparation
for business than the courses in the College of Letters and
Science.

It seetns to me that these statistics indicate very clearly the need for
Schools of Commerce. At any rate, +^re are satisfied that in the astablishment
of the School we have reached a new constituency which has
not been previously attracted by our University courses."
MONOGRAPHS, PAPERS, AND ADDREDSSEDS ON COMMERCIAIv
EDUCATION

13Y EDAIUND J. JASIES.
I. Das Studitlm der StaatsnvissenschafteIl in Amerika. Conrad's
Jahrbuciler for Nationalokonoulie und Statistik N. F.: VII
Band. Jena, I883.

2. Outline of a Proposed School of Political and Social Science.
Philadelphia Social Science Association, I885.
3. The Study of Politics and Business at the University of pennsylvania.
Philadelphia, I 889.
4. Schools of Finance and Economy, Address before American
Bankers' Association. Saratoga, I890.
5. Economic and Social Aspects of Public Education. American Institute
of Instruction. BostoIl, I89I.
6. The University and the Higher Education of Business Ment
National Education Association. Toronto, I89I.


### ---Economics-1901-1-22.txt---
7. A Plea for a Commercial High School. Address before the American
Bankers' Association. San Francisco, I892.
8. Philadelphia's Need o-f a Commercial High School. Address before
the Philadelphia Board of Trade. Philadelphia, I892.
9. Education of Business Men in Europe. Report to the American
Bankers' Association, New York, I893. 211d edition, Chicago,
I 898.

IO. What Should be the Curriculum of the Commercial High School ?
Address before the Educational Cluh of Philadelphia, I894.
I I . The I3usiness Man and Higher Education. Missouri Bankers'
ASSOCiatiOIl, I896.

I2. rhe State UnisTersity and the Higher Training for Business. Address
before the State University of Missouri, I897.
I3. The Modern University. Commencement Address before the
University of California, I 898.
I4. The Public High School and Commercial Education. Report of
the Chicago Educational Commission, I898.
I5. The Function of the City University. Cotnmencement Address
before the Unixersity of Cincinnati, I899.
I6. Commercial Education. Monographs on Edttcation in the United
States. Department of Education for the United States Commission
to the Paris exposition of I900.
Nos. I, 2, 5, I3, and I5, discuss the subject of commerclal education
only incidentally as a part of the general work of the university
or as that of special departments of politics and economics.
 ## Economics-1902-0


### ---Economics-1902-0-01.txt---
The year I776 iS an epoch-lllakint, date in the history
of liberty. Every American associates I776 with the
lDeclaration of Independence, svl-lien, however we may
look upon it-and all Inoclerr-l criticisr-n just and unjust,
to the contrary, notwithstanding ranks among the
greatest and glallclest clocalIlellts of the world's history.
It is there asserted, a.s sometllillZ axiolllatic, as something
lJelonging to the realtn of natural lasr, that lil:erty
is an illaliellable rit,-llt of all meh. Yotl all recall
the precise words: " We hold these truths to be
self-evident; that all men are created equal, that they
are endowed by their Creator With certain ullalienal)le
Rit l-lts, that among these are L;fe, LilDerty and the pursuit
of ISappiness." It is flortllerlrlore asserted tl-at the
rery purpose of the institution vf oOVerNlnellt iS to
secure these riglltEs, and that evely gorrernllletlt clerines
its just powers from the consent of the t,overned.
Btlt the year I776 witnessed the appeara:ace of a book
W}liCll SO admirably presented the eighteenth century
philosophy of industrial llbel-ty, that by colllxnon COI1-
selit of the illtelligenl: it ram.s among the work-l's
greate.st books. I refel- to Adam Smith's " Wealth o£
Nations ", which oWcupies a pivotal oSitiOll in Modern
econotnic thought, earlier works preparing the way for
this master-piece, and subsequent xvorks in economics
resting tIpon the " Wealth of Nations" as a foundation.
So profound has been its inrSuence that the centennial
of its appearance was cleellleci worthy of a celebration.


### ---Economics-1902-0-02.txt---
Placing it below the Declaration of Independence iIl its
power over human destinies, laevel-tlleless, I clare to
place it in the first rank of ?ublication.s which deal
with l-ltlnlall liberts.
The spirit of the age in arllicll he wrote bl-eames
thl-olloll Adam Stnitll's " XVealtll of i%RtiOllS 2. this
spirit is a world-spirit, atod the a<>e is cosmopolitan.
This spirit fizlcls its most logical, its clearest and fullest
expression in the French <)llilosophr and the French
public life of the latter part of the eighteenth century.
Liberty, equality and fraternit! are tnacle the watchWOl-
Cl.S of the republic.
WAlllen sve exan-line the treatment of liberty in the
great historical srorks of tIzis abe, we must be impl-essed
with the silnplicltwT of tile problem of liberty, ac then
conceived. Iviberty is tllouaht of as a unitv) and not as
a complex conception) or buncile of r;gl-lts. AlIoreover,
we find that lilherty is preselltec1 in its nebative aspects.
Restrictions and restraints are found 11pOll libertz, and
it is tllouo-llt tlaat once we clear the.se away, liberty will
assert itself as a benit,n foree.
As in the motto of the French relDllblic, so in the
declaration of Independence, aIld in Adaz-n Smith's
" \;Vealtll of Nations ", liberty is associated xvitll equality.
Natural equality is held to be a fundamental fact, and
not by ally means a ,oal to be reached slowly and painfully.
Ada1n Stnitll looles upon the brick-layer anc1 the
statesrnall as equal in nature, holding that the vast differences
between them are clue to the varied effects of
envirolime1lt. I4ad the envirotltnellt been cl1allged the
statesman would have been the briclc-layer and the
brick-layer the statesInall. This tlaeory of equality runs,
as a red thread, through the entire social philosophy of
that age, and must be bor1-le in mind by one who would


### ---Economics-1902-0-03.txt---
understand the theoretieal and praetieal eonelusions
reaelled by that philosophy. The problem wllieh presented
itself to our forefathers, and to Freneh statesmen,
as well as to English thinkers, was essentially negative.
Restrietions onust be removed. Favoritism onust be
abolished, and the laws tnaking possible restrietions and
favoritism must be repealed. The restrietions upon
liberty svllieh nvere then llotieed ssZere restrietions of a
politieal nature. Consequently the problem of liberty
was eoneeived to be essentially a politieal problem, as
well as a negative one.
Closely assoeiated witl-l this cloetrille of equality was
the doetrille of the bellefieellee of self-interest. Inaslnuell
as men were essentially equal, eaell olze eould best
gElarCl his own interests individually, provided only the
halllperillg fetters of the law sholllc1 maiSe way for a
reign of liberty. Time does not permit llle to follow
out, as I would like, the development of this negative
view of liberty, wlliell I have presented. Froth it we
may traee ollt a very elearly onarked line of evolution of
thought, and a solIlewhat less elearly marked line of
evolution of politieal praetiee. Through various
writers we reaeh Herbert Speneer's treatment of liberty
as a negative allci politieal probletn. The areat elleony
of freedoon, he holds, is the state tnanifesting itself in
laws clireeting Iluman aetisTity, and in his opinion, leading
inevitably to slavery, unless the flow of legislation
is in some way eheeked. We find Herbert Speneer
preaehing his doetrine of liberty in his " Soeial Staties "
in I85I, and asserting in it the right of man to disregard
tTle state, and ila tnore reeent times he expounds his
doetrine in artieles bearing sueh titles as these: "The
Cotning Slavery ", " The Sins of Legislators ", " The
Great Political Superstition."


### ---Economics-1902-0-04.txt---
It is but one step frotn Herbert S?encer to philosphical
anarchy which, in the interests of liberty, woulci
abolish the state altot, ether. We tll us reach the termination
of one line vf locical evolution of liberty, conceived
negatively, as something xvhich may exist if
political restraints and restrictioIls tIpon action are once
removed. Very early, however, those whose interests
led them to approach social and economic questions
from a diiSerent point of view, as xvell as those who
examined the problem of liberty onore broadly and
deeply, be(ratl to qualify the theory of liberty svllicll we
have just examined. John Stuart Mill occupies an illterestilag
position in the development of the philosophy
of liberty, as iil him re see radically antagonistic views
struggling with each other for mastery. HEe was
brought up a firm adherent of the eighteenth century
social philosophy, bllt was ol:)liged to qualify it increasingly,
as he grew older and gained larger knowledge as
a rcsult of bl-oadenillg experience and deeper thought.
On the one hand, iil the interests of liberty he would
prohibit life-long luarriage contracts On tl-le other
hand, he sees ti-le limitations impo.sed upon freedom of
action in the social and economic order, and looks forward
to a titne of collective ownership of land and
capital, althoual-l he does not profess to see l-low this
collective ownership is to be managed so as to avoid new
restrictions IllDon liberty.
Allotlle-r stat,e in the development of tTlought is
clearly reached in the W1-itil]°S of the English philosopher,
Thomas Hill Green,l who breaks away altovetller
from the conception of liberty as something to be
acllieveci by slegative, political action, holding- that true
Lt. H. Gleell, " Liberal legislation and free(lottl of contract "
Works, vol. 3, pp. 365-386


### ---Economics-1902-0-05.txt---
llberty means the explessioIl of positixTe pORVelS of the
individual, and that it Call be reached only cls a result
of a long and tstrclllous constructive process. Green tells
zIS in these xrorcls what he means by li4erty orfreeclotn:
" We do not mean onerelv fleecloll-l from restraint or
compulsion. 5Ale clo not lizeaxl lllerel fl-eeclozn to do as
we like irrespectivrely of what it is that we like. We
do not mean a freec10on that cAn be elljoaTed by one man,
or orle set of then, at the cost of a loss of freedom to
others. When we speak of freedoul as somethillt,- to be
highly prizee1, we mean a positive power or capacity of
doitlt, o1 enjoying solnetllillt, worth doing or enjoying,
aold that, too, solnetlaillg tl]at we clo ol enjoy in common
with others. \Ale mean by it a zower which each than
exelcises through the l-lelp ol security given hioll hy his
fellowtlle2l, and -ullicll he in turn 1lellDs to secure for
them. W}lell we lloeasure the progress of a .<ociety by
tl-ze growth in freedom, re naeastlre it ly the increasing,
development and exercise o]l the whole of those poJers
of contrib.lting to social good -with which we believe
the zzlember.s of the societ) to be endoxved; in short,
by the >reattr power on the part of the citizens as a
bocler to make tlae most and best of tllelllfselxres."
Ais anal-clar gives 11s tl-le logical outcome of one line
of thought concerllint, liberty, so we find another line
of ttzollgllt, regarding libert, going far beyond the
necessary iz;-lzlications of Green's pOSitiOIl and terlMinatillg
in the fDppOSite eNtrelne, socialism.
As i'&dAnl SlllitlI 'S XlD4lilOSOphy Of liberty is atl expression
of the ei>-llteellth century, Tholuas Hill Green's
view xuay l)e looked upon as all expression of the
philosopllyr of liberty with nThich tl-le twentieth century
opens. There are szarious reasons for this change vf
view. One of the most fundamental is, perhaps, found


### ---Economics-1902-0-06.txt---
in the fact tl-lat we have diseovered human nature
to be a more complex mint mall it was thought to be
in the la.st quarter of the eighteenth century. Instead
of a very sitnple psyehology, re have a very complex
psychology underlying our twentieth celltur thought.
Inequalities among men we now 1r110W are natural, or
the natural outcome of the kind of a world in which
we live, illllabiteci by oltr kind of beings. Affen are
what they are as a result of heredity, as well as ealvironment.
Afoleover, we have a hereclity of environment
itself, which is felicitously terllaed social l-leredity.
Tl-le outcome of this is found in the fact now clearly
perceived by those who think deeply OI1 SttC9l subjects,
that in contract men who are, in one way and another
unequals, face each other and that their inequality expresses
itself in the contracts which deterInine their
. . .

ecollomlc conc mon.
Another cause of the change in view coolcertling the
achievement of liberty, is found in tl-ze growth complexity
of society, especially on its economic side. 5'len
are brought into society in a real and vital sense by the
relations existing along them, and these relations have
multiplied ellorlllouslT during the past celatllry. The
economic ties toniting men in society were relatlvely
few and simple in I776. Slleir growth, extensively and
intensively, is a mattet- of familiar knowledge at the
present time. It is a mere trllislll to say that ollr rellbeillg
in industrial matters depends on others, as well as
on oulselves. Ollr ecollolnie well-being is all outcome
of satisfactorT relations existing between the individual
and society. Now these relations which bind Mall to
his fellow-men are to only a limited extent of a political
nature. Consequently it follows that restrictions upon
liberty are, for the luost part, outside of and beyond


### ---Economics-1902-0-07.txt---
government. Furthermore, the problem of liberty is
only to a minol extent a political prol:)lem. And as it
is only to a minor extent a politieal problem, it can
llesler, in atly true sense, lJe secured by a mere repeal of
political laws, nor indeed bl a mere enactment of
political lal.N7s. Neither retnoval of politico-eeonoulic
restrictions upon freedom of trade, nor enactment of
ulliv7ersal suffrage, can give us rnore than a smal], fractional
part of liberty.

Our OaTu, familiar, everyday experience teaches t1S that
reStriCtiOIlS upon our positive liberty of action are mainly
due to the coerciool of economic forees. T1lis coercion
of ecol-lomic forces lnalaifests itself in many ways, but
largely in and through contract competitively formed.
This is seen, -first of all, in what may be called the problessg
of the tzevessSieSA vn^z. Nineteen men wish to pursue
a certain course of economic aetioll, bllt are coerced
comptitively by the twentieth into a line of conduct
N71aicll they dislil e. Nineteen barbers in the city of Madison,
WiSCOl]Sill, vislaed to close their shops on Sunday;
the twentieth would not agree to close his, and consequently,
all tlge twenty were, and still are, kept open.
Nilaeteen men may desire to work ten hours a day, and
mal be coerced by the twentieth into xrorlzing fourteen
hours a day. Apparelatly they are all working fourteen
hours a day because they choose to do so, but the choice
is not a free one, in any true .Sense of the word. Even
the tarentietll ollan prefers to work ten hours a clay, but
yields to pressure for the sake of a ternporary advantage,
and so he is likewise coereed. The freedom -wizieh thus
expresses itself in eontraet is in eertain eases lilSe the
freedotn of a slave, who chooses to work rather than to
suffer under the lash.
The coercion of ecolloznic forces is largely due to the


### ---Economics-1902-0-08.txt---
unequal strength of those who ulake a contract, for back
of contract lies inequalitr in strelabtll of those who form
the contract. Conn-act does not cllalage eisti-lag ilaeqllalities
and forces, bllt is siluply the Inediuln through xvllicll
they find exprosciol. \7ilealtll and poverty, plenty and
hulager, 1lakedlless all( warm clothing, ignorance and
learning face each other in contract, anci find expression
in ancT tlarougll contract. Accorclint, to the tl-zeorv of
Pufenclorf, one of the great jurists o-f his day, slavery is,
historically, an utcollle of coll'cract. I clo not mull<
myself, that this is a correct vievnr of slaTery) as awlac)le
but it llnqllestionalDly explains slavel-r ilz many in.stances.
even in Olll- orn clay conn-acts llasse hee1-l foroed which
have been elelaouilced -Eronl the belzell a.s virttl?l sla ery.
I have itl onilld particularly the well known ca.ses ss llicll,
in the present year, arere brollllt before Judge WA1. C.
Bennett in Columbia, Sg C. :St apptar.s in tl-le <;tatemellt
of the cclse by the Jllclte that llet,roen e"ltered into
collcracts whereby they surretlelered nearly, if nsDt quite
all, tho.se rights which we aS.sociate N^lim a Condition
of freedollll. 1 he form o: tl-le contract includes the followzag:


" I agree at all times to be subject sCQ the orders and
commands of said or his aCeIlts, perform all
work reqllil-ed or me. - or ili.S abelltS Small have
the l-ight to use such £orce as iie or his agents may deem
1lecessary to coInpel me to remain on iliS farm allbl tV perform
good and satisfactory services. He small have the
right to lock lne up for safekeepint,, work me vlnder the
rules and regulations of his farm, and if I should leave his
fartn or run away he shall have the ribht to ofTer and
pay a reward of not exceeding ,$2 5 for llly capture and
return, together with the expenses of saule, which
amount so advanced, together with an other indebtedness


### ---Economics-1902-0-09.txt---
I may owe at the expiration of above
time, I a,t,ree to work out under all rules and regulations
of this contract at same wages a.s above, commencinb
al-ld elaclillg

The said small have the right to transfer his
interest in this contract to any other party, and I agree
to continue vork for said assir,nee san-le as the original
party of the first part."
Judge Bennett, in adclressilzg his,rand jury, declared
that this nominally free contract " reduced the laborer
to a position svorse than slaveryO" In chart,in^, the
grand jury he said: " No :Eree man itl this col-llllonwealth
nor ally other free country can lDe permitted,
even if l-le desires to do so, to bartez- awav his liberty and
make hil:nself a chattel; and that is xvl-lat this contract
attempts to do." The Jlldt,e spoke of it as lllo,St itiful
of all that the poor ne,roes rl-lo llad fol-lned such a contract
should profess " to le sat:isSed and contented ".
'rlle sale of children ly their parents in times of distress
is a frequent phenomenon in onany Oriental countries;
and prostitution aslel slavery can in those countries
even to-day often be traced back to contracts of one sort
and another.

We have in these instances a very extrelue folln of
the inequality expressed itl and tllrOIIgh contract,
nominally £ree. Wleat is seen in these cases in extreme
form can be seen in lesser degree on every hand, even
in the most civilized nation. \Ale see from all this that
contract gives expression to inequalities, and allows
existilzg social forces to flow on, involving itl some cases,
a perpetuation and deepening of de,radation.
Furthermore, we have lying back of free ccontract the
great institutions of society, property, atld the inheritance
of property, and vested interest.s. In short, all that


### ---Economics-1902-0-10.txt---
passes down from generation to generation lies back of
contract and expresses itself in and tlllouglt contract.
As a result of the nature of lzaan, of the conditions of
existence in a srorld like ours, and of the great llistol-ical
institutions which have come down to llS, men exist in
classes. These classes, in tnoclern times, rest upon all
economic foundation. Even the political classes of
earlier clays had, in the beginning, an economic basis,
but the oleler political classes are, in our day a cotnparatively
sulall matter. The Century Dictionary defines
class as follows: " An order of or rank of persons;
a nlllolber of persons llavirg certain characteristics in
common, as equality in rank, intellectual influence, education,
pl-operty, occupation, habits of life.'9
The existence of classes, which is absolutely necessarr,
resting upon a foundation beyond the power of
man to control, gives complexity to our probletrl of
liberty. A modern jllrist has used these words, which
have a pro-found significance in ollr discussion of the
problem of liberty: " There is no greater inequality tha
the equal treatment of unequals."
The problem of liberty includes the problem of suitable
control over the relations which exist along nlen; for
these relations determine the conditions of our social existence.
These relations may be considered individually
and socially, and the social action may be either of private
or public character. The action of a trades union in its
endeavor to secure favorable relations, is private social
action; a statute, determining the length of the srorki ng
day, is public social action; and lDotll alike aim, successfully
or unsuccessfully as the case may be, to promote
liberty. All action whid-l endeavors to l-emove ignorance
and superstition and to strengthen the individual,
mentally, morally and physically, is action which endeavors


### ---Economics-1902-0-11.txt---
to plOlllOte libert)r. Necessarily, social action
which determil-les or ret,ulates in an) way the relations
of tnen among themselves, ttlUSt restrict freecloll-l of
movement at some point, but where it is wise it increases
it more than correspondingly at other points. If
we have restriction upon liberty called 2a) xve have in
the ca.se of wise, social action all inclement of liberty
wlliclt is certainly 2 plEls something- else. The ernployer
tnay not hire the services of little clailelren, and
his liberty to clo so is restricted, but the liberty of tl-le
children is increased. They are freed from toil, and when
provision is made for their srise e(lucation and llp-bringing,
their powers are increased, alad they have many
fold the lilJerty to employ tllellaselves in the service of
their fellows fol- then- own benefit.
We thus have a vast body of legislation in and
through which society seeks liberty. This legislation
uoclifies and qualifies nominally free contract, because
nominally free contract lnay mean servitude of various
kinds anci various degrees. The aim is the increase of
liberty in the positive sense.
Education is one of the liloes along which modern
societr works to secure liberty. It cultivates and enlightens
the Inilld, free.s it from enslavilag superstition;
aIld, where it is industrial, it cultivates economic
powers and aids us in acljustilag ourselves in the relations
of cozlplex economic society.
Mocleroll legislation eveol reluctantly and against tlae
force of prejudice, recognizes increasillglv the existence
of classes, and the inequalities of powers amotlgllunlan
beings. We have one breat class in tl-le comtnunity,
children, for rhol-n re have special laws. AVomell are
another great class, svith a nature different frotn that of
nen, and with secial needs of their own. We have


### ---Economics-1902-0-12.txt---
tl1e farIners; xve have tile class of zllell el1gabed i
tran.spol-tatioll; the metl rho work for wages; all xvitl
their special 1leeds and pectIliarities) fi1ldillg expl-essio
in laws applicahle to the clas.s to ^71licll tTley lDelotlg
To use expression o-f Judt e Cooley in his Col1stitt
tional Limitations, we have here simply the recogl1ition
of " distinctions that exist in the nature of things ".
It srould be interestilag, if tirne perulitted, to show
how many cliSerel1t lSinds of legal inequality there may
be where we have nominal legal equality. I can refer
here ol-lly lhriefly to sDne or two pOil1ts. We have
inequality iIa power to secure l-leecled laws. Col-lsequently
sve l1ave scocieties a-ld social action i<1 order to
secure needed legislation for tl1ose who by themselves
are not strong etaougll to gain the ends sought. rll
stl-eet car elzaployees of ZBaltiluol-e, sonwe 5 ears ago,
desired to laave tl-1eir nom s of labor reclucecI from vsevell
teen nom-S atld tw-ellty miIlutes a dar to twelve hours,
and by social action, in which many of the llle.l of
Baltiollore) zzost etlailletat ila cl1llrcll azacI state alad io
prislate fielcRs, participated, a tvelve hour day was
secured.

There is inequality 011 accol.lnt of the l taosriedge of
lasr o11 tlae pals vf the srario.ls classes, at-id in the pover
to avail ozze's self vf tlae law. Con.sequetltly, nN-e 1lave
societies formed to remedy this evil, alud to promote that
libet-ty\Vhicll comes frot<z balazreed pomlers. We have
OU1- bureaus of justice, and ollr legal aici societies.
And another thing. \Ale have an immense modern
development in tl1is country of the police power of the
state, as this power is most infelicitously teruled. We
mean, as everyone versed in the elements of law knows,
the general welfare power of the state, restricting and
limiting contract in the interests of freedom. This dew


### ---Economics-1902-0-13.txt---
velopmellt of the police power, slow as it is, shows the
adaptability of law to changing industlial anc:l ecol10mic
co:laclitions. It has been said, and truly, that developInellt
of law lag.s bel-lind the evolution of industrial
society-, so that the 1asr repl-esents a correspondence to a
precerlillg stage or period in il-ldustrial developlnezit. It
has been difficult fol- our courts to adjust the-zlselves to
the restrictions UpOIl nomilzally free contract, demanded
by the interests of a larger and truer freedom. Collse
quently, in luall cases decisioles hasTe been rendered
w1oich must be condemned by economic philosophy.
Fortunately, however, our courts are finding the laeeded
elelnez] t of flexibility ita our constitutional system in the
police power, and are recognizing the fact that a new
ecol10nzic sxorld detnancls new interpretations. Under
ATTlericall conditions, With upright judges of superior
intelligeInce, cleoted to freedolm as the understand it,
this proposition nzay be safely maintained, as ilas been
well stated by ozze of our professors of lanr: " It has ever
been true that in matters of great social and political
illiport, our legal decisions and theories have conformed
themselves to the current political and social thought,
and 1lot our social and political thought to our legal
theories." I

Amollt,- our various state courts I think the truths
concerning freedom, svllich I have so imperfectly brought
before you, have been most clearly seen and most ex
plicitly stated lDy the Supreme Court of Massachusetts.
Sonae years ago, legislation restricting the right of
women to work in a factory more than ten hourvs a day
and sixty l'Olll-S a week was upheld. SigniEcallt extracts
frolIl the decision of the court in this case, are
1 Professor A. A. Bruce, lJniversity of wisconsin in the Recol-d
Herald, Chicago, July 7, I9OI .


### ---Economics-1902-0-14.txt---
the following: " It does not forbid any person, firtn O:L
corporation from employing as many persons or as much
labor as such person, firm or corporation may desire .y
nor does it folbid any person to work as many hours ¢a
day or week as he chooses, it tnerely provides tl-lat \1
any emplo) tnent mich the let,islature has evidently
deemed to soule extent dangerous to health, no person
shall be engaged in labor tnore mall tell hours a day
and sixty hours a weel. T1lere can be no doubt that
such legislation may be maintained, either as a health
or police regulation, if it were necessary to resort to
either of those sources for porer. This principle has
been so Irequently recognized in this commonwealth
that reference to the decisions is unnecessary.
" It is also said that the law violates the right of Bilary
Shirley to labor in accordance with her osvn judg-ment
as to the number of hours she may work. The obvious
and conclusisTe reply to tl-lis is, that the law does not
limit ller rig,-llt to labor as many hours per day or per
^reek as she lnay desire. It merely prohibits her being
employed colatilauollsly in the same service more mall a
certain 1lumber of hour,s per clay or week." 1
The present learned chief justice of that state, :\1r.
Justice Holmes, has also expressed lainlself in such a
manner concerning the right of the state to regulate
free contract ila the interests of a larger -freed()m, as to
sl-low a clear insight into the underlying principles involved.
"

It ivs natural to expeet ellligi}telled decisions on eco-
110111iC questions itl A/Iassaclallsetts, and that for several
' II1 Commonwealth v. Hamilton Manufacturing Company, I20
Mass. 385.

2I am pleased to quote from a letter received from Mr. Justice
Holmes, with his permission, the following: " In my opinion, econoeasons.


### ---Economics-1902-0-15.txt---
One is the progressive eharaeter of the state,
^.1. to general enlightenment; another is the altrllistie
.pxrit of the age, wliiell finds suell oSratifyillg expressio
the Old Bay state, and a third is the faet of its lligl
dustrial development, as a result of which it has llad
3 r deal for a longer period than other states rim those
questions growilag out of an intelasive industrial life.
Reeently, howeer, to states, viz., Tenlaessee ala(t West
Virginia, itldustriallwr far less developed, have taken a
leading po.sition in the regulation of eontraet in the
interests of libertz truly eoneeived. I refer to the
deeisions of the eourts of these states, sustaining statutes
prohibiting the lnaintellallee of trllek shops, and also
providing for weighing of eoal. the eourts elearly
reeognize inequalities in baraainillg porer, 157ilag baek
of eontraet, and they also take the pOSitiOzz,-ancR it is undoubtedly
a true one,-that wise legislation of this sort is
ealeulated to prevent industrial strife, disorder and
bloodshed, and to maintain the publie peaee.l
The au,ust tribunal whieh holds its session in this
eity, the Supreme Court of the United States, has also,
OI1 broad grounds of publie policy, 1lplleld the statute of
the state of Utah, wllieh limits the x^Torking day £or
miners in that state to eight hours.2 TIle Supreme
Court did not go into the wisdom of this partietllar
statute, and I have no desire to clo so ola this oceasiool.
It is simply the broad prineiple of regulation of eeollomie
relations in the interests of freedom mich is in
question. We see the most enlightened eourts thus enmists
and sociologists are the people to sTholll sve ought to turIl more
thala ve do for instruction irl the grounds and foundations of all
rational decisions."
1 Harrison v. Knoxville Iron Co., 53 S. RV. Rep. 955 (Tenn. ). Peel
Splint Coal Co. v. State, I5 S. E. Rep. ( 5vV. Va. ) IOOO.
2Holden v. Hardy, I69, U. S. 397.


### ---Economics-1902-0-16.txt---
deavoring to develop the idea of publie poliey in SUCl1 a
way as to Dring eontraet into eollfornaity with illdUStrRa$.
conclltlons.

It is in the poliee power that we fil-zd the peeulia13r
flexible eletllelat in (DU1 lega.l sszstexn, aold svith RZritte-i
eonstitlltions such as we have it is l-lOt easy to see where
otllernvise it is to be sought. T1le lDossibilities of development
along the line of the poliee power eannot be
limited. Coaseqelelltly, tl-lere is the possibilitn7 of an
evolution of ollr law s^71iell shall adapt it to otlr present
and fls tllre industrial life, al-ld tll 1l.s seeure i lldtlstrial
liberty. Let t1S take, for exansple, the doetrine that
free corltraet presupposes " tl-le will as volltntarily lna-lifested.
' It is quite evidezat tl-lat this must take from
cel taioa agreements the character of a valici conn a.et.
All agreement made by pressure due to threats to a
luan's 1lol1se cannot be a bioldiilg contract. Similarly
if I see a millionaire, who is clronvnillg, anc] offer to save
liS life, ool condition that he tl1rn over to llle all his
property, olo court srollld .sustain this agreement as a
billeling contract.
But is it not po.ssible in some ca.ses to take into account
the pressure of economic needs, for exaulple,
the hunger of wife and children ? Ullquestiollably9
agreements rith wage-earners have been extorted by
the severest pressure of llun-el-. Agreemeolts for
usuric?us rates of interest have also been extorted lll-leler
the pressure of economic 1leed. Courts have frequently
found a way to declare such agreetneolts of no binding
force. I cannot enlarge upon this thought, and itldeedt
have no desire to do more mall luerely to suggest an
isuportant line of evolution in the interests of liberty.
Let us take again the principle that the ribllt to contract
must not olullify itself, and it .seeons that from the


### ---Economics-1902-0-17.txt---
standpoint of libertyw there CAll be no doubt whatever
about this principle. Yet it is easy for cc)lltl-act to abl-ogate
the right of cot,ltract. \Allle1lever a Inal1 colatracts
hilMSelf into t-1 COnditiOIl of virtual slavery, tlwis is the
case. I have already cited the xvell-k1lorlln cases brought
before J udge Bennett of South Carolina. Cases have
arisen in Germany, under *Nrlnat is called tile "coznpetitive
clause " of labor contracts. It seems that there it is
quite ctlstcxmary to insist upon a contract With an employee,
learni1ag a travle or occUpAtion, that 1lt Small not'
after he hAs aCqUil-ed his lirilOR\7ledoe Of the 5LlSineSS,
eIlter into competition with his employer. Sometiines
there is a limitation UpO11 the period or area vitllin
which 1lo competition must be attempted, 1laakitlg the
clause a fairly reasonable c)ne. Sometimes, however, a
lad utterly incompetent to contzeInplate the remote COt]-
sequences of lliD act, and not liaxtillC five dollars tc) his
name, will agree under a penalty of perhaps several
thousand dollars not to enter into cornpetition R7ith his
employer during his Xrllole life, or itl the e1lsil-e German
empire, and sometimes it is said, not allyR;here in the
svorld. VV]len contracts are carefully sc1-utinized rith
respect to their impairment, directly o1- indirectly, of the
ritllt to zanake future contracts, it xvill be foulad that
many regulations are 1zecessary in the itaterests of liberty.
Contracting-out as it is 110u7 technically callerl, OC1S
an interesting illust1 ation of the ahsolute necessity of
limitations upon contt-act in the interests of pub]ic policy.
It rN;in readily be conceded that prisrate contract Inust
not stand above public policy, and y et throug-h contracting-
out of oblibations public policy 1nay frequ ently, atld
will freqelently be subverted. Let us suppose it is determined
to be public lDolicy, as it has been determined in
Germany and in England, that accidents to employees,
unle.Ss brought abolIt t?y sZilful act of the eInpl(zyee, shall
be regarded as a part of tllz- expenses of manufacturing


### ---Economics-1902-0-18.txt---
plants cand agencies of transportation, to be paid for as
any other costs of cloi1ag business, out of the proceeds of
the business. Unless it is rendered impossible for an
emplov-ee to contract-otlt ofthe obligation this wise provision
in the iaterests of a large industrial liberty xvill be
nullified by private contracts. ConseqtlentlJ,Y, svre find in
the most advanced i1ldu.strial countries the doctrine
established by the stal-ute, or coming to prevail in one
rivay and another? that colltractill>out of oblit,-ationsy
established in the interests of public policy, cannot be
tolerated.

Another line of development in the interests of industrial
liberty must consist in opening up and increasing
oppoz-tunities for the acquisition of a livelihood by the
mass of men, in order that back of contracts there may
lie a nearer approximation to equalitlyir of strent,-th on
the part of the tsvo contracting parties. It is certain
that tlltre \\7ill be a vast development along this iine
during the twentietla century, and tllrou5-ll this development
we shall find liberty expressing itself increasingly
through conn-act.

It is manifest, I think, that philosphical anarclay
fu1^nislller us with 1ao idecll. The absence of all social
regulations means t]le tIllrestl-icted iy1-alllly of the stronS.
Plato clea1-ly saat this R;llen he asserted that " the mo.st
aggravated fortus of tyranny and slavery arise otlt of
the most extreme form of liberty''.l
Mazzilli also saxrv7 this clearly enoubll, wrllen he said of
liberty: " If you entllz one it alolae as meaIls and end, it
\\7ill lead society first to anarchy, aftersZard to the despotism
sz7hicll you fear.2

XVe have not said all, lloxvever, that there is to be said
concerning the ideal of anal-chy sstllen sx7e have pointed
1 Republic, viii, 564, Jowett's translation, p. 272.
2 Mazzilli, " Rights and wrongs ", Publications of the Christian
Social Union, pp. 9-IO.


### ---Economics-1902-0-19.txt---
out that it can only mean tyranny a1ld despotism.
Liberty cannot be an absolute ideal, because avlthoritr
iS needed in society, in order to secure the harmonious
coopet-atiotl of its xzarious elements a1ld ritllout social
authority sve could have no production of urealth, and
we should be xvithout the material basis of that large and
positive liberty oThicll enables us to employ our faculties
in the commo1l service. This social authority rests, for
the most part, UpOl] the great institutions of societyp
1-operty, vested interests, cont1-act and personal conditions.
To only a limited exte-nt is there a direct
political basi.s for the autllolity wllel eby one inan ht-illt,xs
into ha1-mollious cooperation other men, in the rorlK of
production. The basis of social authority is, for the
most part ilzstitLltional.
On the other hand, socialism furnishes us \X7itl] 110
sufEciellt ideal of industrial libertv. Goint, to the
oppc)site extreme from azaarchy, it would find a political
basis for that social authority through rvllich tile itldUStria]
coopet-ation of then is effected. It svould limit the
range of free choice, and 1-estrict liberty, although to a
less debl-ee than a1larchy. The t1-ue idc-al lier midsvay
betveen clilarclly and socialisIn, aIld may be termed the
principle of social solidarit. Accordint, to this
principle the >,reat institutions of society must be conserved,
btlt developed in tl-we interests of liberty positively
conceixTed. There must be a ca1-efully elabo1-ated, and
nFisely e.xecuted rebulatio1l of ecoIlomic relations.
XVe are indulgin>, in no Utopian fancies but are sirnply
describing the forces which al-e evervlllele ma1lifestillg
themselves in tlze most ellliolltelleCi nations, and al C
resulting in atl evide1lt increase of the sphere of industt-
ial liberty for the masses of men. It is absurd to say
that re must not pass any lat in the interests of a single
class of men, inasmuch as men exist in classes, and industrial


### ---Economics-1902-0-20.txt---
lars to be effective must deal vith them as they
e>cist in classes. And, moreover, no class exists for
itself. As society becomes real and vitcal, and mecans
more and more to tIS all, it becomes app)at-ent that no one
class exists for itself, an cl that no one class can exist
apart from all other clclsse<;. YVhile there is sud] a thing
as vicious legislation in behalf of a fesT favored individuals,
hatever promotes tl-le interests of any one of the great
and numerous classes in society, either itl rncltters physical,
mental, moral or spiritual, advance, the interests of
evel-y othel class. '; RiVe are members Otle of a1lotller," and
" tl-le eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of
thee: IlOi- again the head to the feet, I laave no need of
you aIld wrlletller one metuber sufi-ers, all the
membel-s suffer with it: or one n-lember be honored all
tIae In embers rej oice xvitll it " . Tll e apoqtle- Paul gives in
in these srlords an expreCsioil to ca deep principle of modern
illdllstricll society, the princilDle of social solidarity.
I llcave sketched tll us hastily ca theory of illdustria
liberty. What I have said, I would have looked LIpO]l
as thoughts on industrial liberty, mol-e or less closely
eo1lnected. I have not even attempted an exhaustive
treatment, for hich m+ time is coo lirnited, even hcld 1[:,
as I have not, the wisdom for a complete preszntatiotl.
I trust, howe.vcJr, that what I hclve preSented is in
harmony sVitTl indtlstricll evolution a11(J trtltn. It is
something, at atly 1-ate, if I have at least made it clea.r
that indtlstl-ial liberty is a conception laaving a relative
and not an absolute value; that it is to be conceived in
a poxitive latl-ler than in a negative sense; that it is olOt
something svllich can be decreed off-hand, by any lebis
lative body, but rather that it is a social product, to be
achieved by individuals worki1lg 50cially together, and
that it comes, not all at once, but slovly as the result of
a long continued atld arduous process. It is IlOt the beginning
of social evolution, but rather one of the goals


### ---Economics-1902-0-21.txt---
o social evolution, aI-ld one sT1lich 1nust be brought iIltO
harmony with other goals, such as equality, also relativelT
conceived, and fraternity, the only one of the
three goals, liberty, equality and fraternity, which can,
in any way, be conceived absolutely. XVe have, then,
aIa-long others, three goals of industrial evolution liberty,
equality and fraternity but the greatest of these is
fratel-zl lty.
 ## Economics-1903-0


### ---Economics-1903-0-01.txt---
Economic science is an outgrowtll of economic conditions.
It is a product of social unrest. From the earliest
discussions of classical antiquity. from the first faint
glimmer of truth in uledixval speculatiola, from the elaboration
of complete systems of thought in the eighteenth
century, down to the recent renaissance of scientific enquiry
in the western hetnisphere, each step forward in
economic analysis has been the result of azz attempt to
unravel the tangled skein of actual conditions, and of an
effort to solve the difficultie.s of the existing industrial
society. Consciously or unconsciously the teleological
element has presided at the birth atld has accompanied
the Crowth of all social speculation. " What ought to
be " has ever been the spiritual father of " what is."
It is not inteIlded, of course, to deny the existeIlce of
the independent search -for truth for its own sake. On
the contrary, in economics, as in every other scientific
discipline, the highest flights of the intellect have been
in the tenuous and serene attnosphere of pure reason, far
above the tllrbid waves and windy surface of every day
discussion. It would in belloove the president of an association
like this to say aught in disparagement of the
fearless and unselfish quest for truth for its own sake.
Atnids0Athis onward sweep of material pr3gress and this
tidal wave of mere brutal bigness which threatens to engulf
us all, nothing is more needed than to cling to the


### ---Economics-1903-0-02.txt---
stake of principle and to hold fast to the sheet anchor of
unprejudiced and undaunted conclusion. The so-called
theorist has a heavy and often 1lndeserved load to bear.
The term is redolellt of condescension; it szzacks of contempt.
And yet, if the theory is what the word implies,
if it is a real exposition, a true statenzent of the necessary
relations between facts, then no tnatter by what
method it has been reached, no matter how unlikely it
may seem or how unwelcome it may be, it rests 1lpon a
bed of adamant and will endure forever. To seek such
an explanation, to attain such a result needs not only
the most unremitting ardor, but often the most intrepid
resolution.

The point, however, that it is desired to emphasize
here is that the facts of which an explanation is sought
must be chosen with discrimination. If the facts themselves
are really insignificant, the theory, no rnatter how
true, cannot fail to be trivial. The minor writers on
economics have, unfortunately, far too often dissipated
their energies on such trivialities, and have, as a coIlsequence,
sunk to the depths of scholasticisln and mere
logomachy. If economics is to be of ally real service, it
must deal with the important phenomena of economic
life. The great thinkers in our domain, however elevated
their view, however recondite their processes of
thought, have always stood on the firm foundation of
basic social relations. To whatever extent, for instance,
we may be tempted to disagree with the methods or the
conclusions of Ricardo, there is no doubt that the problems
which engaged his attention were entirely worthy
of so acute and so profound a mind. However abstract
the mode of treatment, however unfinished or fragmentary
the results, however remote the argument from the
habitual and narrow considerations of the market place,


### ---Economics-1903-0-04.txt---
widely recognized, many implications of the older theory
still survive, and continue to exert a baneful and constricting
influence.

Take, for instance, the opinion either explicitly or
implicitly shared by many of our thoughtful fellow
citizens that this country has in some way a distilletive
mission to perform, and that we are marked ofT from
the rest of the world by certain inherent principles,
relative indeed, in the sense of being peculiar to
America, but eternal and immutable in their relation to
ourselves. Now I certainly do not desire to depreciate
the advantages of patriotism, or to impeach the Ullquestiolled.
influence of nationality. Nations, like individuals,
differ from each other in countless respects!
and each has doubtless sot-ne peculiarity of endowment
which is lacking in the other. Rivalry between nations,
like competition between individuals, is an essential
factor of all social progress. The friction of coontnercial
and intellectual intercourse, notwithstandillt, the
sanguinary struggles by which it has often been attended,
has proved to be the TtlOSt potent influence izz
generating and spreading the light of civilization. To
disparage the facts and the force of natioIlality were
futile indeed. And as with nationality, so with patriotism.
Nations, like individuals, must respect themselves
if they desire to be respected b3wr others; and if they seek
to accomplish anything enduring, they tnust have an
ardent faith in their own strength and their own
powers of progress. To minitnize the value of patriotistn
and its abiding beneficence would be shortsighted
in the extreme.

But how often are the claims of nationality pushed to
an extravagant and unwarrantable length ! We have
indeed learned to put in their proper setting the contentions


### ---Economics-1903-0-05.txt---
of the " chosen peoples "; and we regard the attitude
of the ancient Jews and of the classic Greeks
toward gentile and barbarian respectively as the perfectly
explicable, but none the less culpable, result of an
overweening pride and vainglory, buttressed in the one
case by the all-pervading power of religion, and in the
other by the fanciful supports of ancestry. We can with
diHiculty repress a smile of amusement when confronted
to-day by the rival demands of those mighty monarchs
who still profess to rule br " the grace of God," and who
are unwilling to submit their differences to the arbitrament
of anything less mall the "nalaifest destiny" of
their own flesh and blood. We are even ready at the
present time in the matter of international morality to
concede that while there is a beam in the eyes of our
neighbors, there Inay possibly be at all events a tllote in
our own.

When, however, we come to a consideration of economic
phenotnena and their influence on our social and
political fact and theory, we do not recognize that we
have been largely living in a fool's paradise. We think
with complacency that there is something inherent in
our democracy; we look back upon the achievements of
our coloniaI struggles as ttle obvious consequence of the
Puritan character; we congratulate ourselves upon our
love of liberty, our inventive ingenuity, our utlexalupled
prosperity. What we do not see is the essential relativity
of all these phenotnena, the dependence of thetn
all on the shifting conditions of time and place.
New England indeed developed its democracy and its
town meeting. But the town uleeting had its prototype
in the woods of Germany, on the steppes of Asia, and in
fact in all pritnitive assemblages; while the democracy
was the result, not of the Puritan alacestry, but of the


### ---Economics-1903-0-06.txt---
economic conditions. The Puritans had nothing to do
with the beginnings of democracy in the mediseval
communes, or with its development amid the Alps of
Switzerland or the dunes of Holland; and the same
Puritans were unable to put on a firm foundation at
home the democracy which they easily established ila
the new world. So it is with the love of liberty and
individualism. Liberty is alway s the collcotnitant of
economic equality, or at all events of the equality of
economic opportunity. When this equality was almost
from the outset excluded, as in the South throut,h the
pressure of an economic environment based on all
abundance of free soil, well suited to an extensive and
quasi-tropical tillage, the result was a disappearance ot
liberty for all but the governing class. It took but a
few generations for the sturdy and liberty-loving patriots
of England and Scotland to become sincere and devoted
believers in the necessity and the beneficence of slavery.
The so-called Anglo-Saxon love of liberty went the
way of the old Roman boast of freedom when the world
conquests, with their supply of fresh land, made slavery
an economically profitable system. What a ghastly
mockery that the proud assertion in our Declaration of
Independence as to all tnen being born equal and with
the natural right to liberty should be signed by so large
a proportion of slaveholders !
And what shall we say of the boasted Anglo-Saxon individualism
? How does it happen that the Englishman,
leaving his moist and fertile home for the arid and
barren wastes of the antipodes, becomes, if not a socialist,
at all events the next remove to one ? Why is it
that in Australia we find the governtnent railroads, and
the government insurance, and the government steamship,
and the government frozen meat industry, and the


### ---Economics-1903-0-07.txt---
dozen other examples of government activity which
would be greeted with dismay in the mother country?
Is it not clear that the individualist theory in America
is the product of definite economic conditions in the
nineteenth century ? What careful interpreter of American
history does not know that the arduous struggles
with a rebellious soil and an inhospi table climate
caused the American of a century ago to turn to governtnent
whenever he thought he might secure help ?
State roads, state canals, state railroads, state bounties,
state enterprises of all kinds suited to the needs of the
settlers were the order of the day. Bllt when the Inountains
llad been crossed and the fertile valleys of the Middle
West llad been reached, there came a wondrous
ClRange. CO11SCiOUS of their new opportunities, the citiZenS
110W desired only to be left alone in their quest for
prosperity. Private initiative replaced government assistance,
and the age of corporations was ushered in.
Insellsibly the theory of governmental functions chanbed,
and the doctrine of lasssez fazre carried all before it.
Never before and in no other country did the theory of
individualism take such hold of an entire people, because
never before had the economic conditions bee
quite so favorable.

And at the satne time individualistn was reinforced by
democracy. CDolonial New England was indeed a democracy;
but toward the end, OWilig to a changing econoznic
environment, we notice the traces of an aristocratic
developulent, cultnillating here and there in the
dependence of sufirage itself on property qualificatioIls.
But now the broad plains and fruitful valleys of the Middle
West, amid which slavery was economically unprofitable,
and therefore politically impossible, produced an
environment so favorable to democracy that its inlquence


### ---Economics-1903-0-08.txt---
soon spread throughout the entire North. It was this
combination of democracy and individualism which
slowly became strong enough in its economic basis to
throw down the gauntlet to the opposite economic system
of the South, and finally to emerge victoriously
-from the contest.

With the unification of the system and the supervening
change of economic conditions, the content of otlr
democracy is changing and the theory of extreme indi-
* e *

VldUallSm 1S passlng away.
Do you not see, then, that there is nothing inherent in
the fundamental characteristics of our Puritan past ?
Do you not recognize the fact that the history of colonial
New England is but an episode in the drama of
humanity, a mere interlude in the play of society ?
Its strength and weakness alike are the results of a contact
between a fairly civilized mental attitude and a
primitive economic environment. In such a contact the
envirot]tnent in the long run becomes the potent factor.
American history, therefore, has been the history of
national infancy. To predict a future which shall be a
necessary development from our early past would be as
childish as to explain the conditions of Roman imperialism
from the facts of the pre-republican age. While
the stubborn racial characteristics must indeed not be
overlooked, the Atnerican of the future will bear but
little resemblance to the American of the past. To
forecast the coming social transformation in our country
without bearing in mind the fundamental change in the
econotnic conditions were puerile indeed. Relativity,
not absolutism; change, not permanence, is the watchword
of all social, political, and ethical progress.
An economic analysis based on changing conditions
is therefore of the utmost possible service. And if conducted


### ---Economics-1903-0-09.txt---
skillfully it would, I feel convinced, bid us be of
good cheer and help us face the future with hope and
confidence. The fundamental problem connected with
social development is after all this: Whither are we
tending? What lessons have an econoznic interpretation
of the past and of the present to teach us in our
guidance for the future ? M;hat are the forces that are
making for progress or retrogression ?
There is no blinking the fact that many give a pessimistic
answer to these queries. They call attention to
the increase of luxury and of materialism. They look
with suspicion UpOIl what they term the growing plutocracy
and the new feudalisul. They point to the warning
example of the oriental monarchies of classic Greece
and Rome, and tell us that in our case, too, the period of
unquestioned prosperity which is now upon us will inevitably
be followed by one of decay and final dissolution.
What has been, will be. There is nothing new
in human affairs.

I venture to affirm, however, that a more discriminating
study would disclose the existence of several
factors inattention to which is largely responsible for
this gloomy and despondent attitude, and that, on the
contrary, the outlook is not dark, but promising indeed.
Without attempting in this place the impossible task
of a complete analysis, I venture to call your attention
to six points which differentiate modern industrial
society from all its predecessors. These are: first, the
practical exhaustion of free land; second, the predominance
of industrial capital; third, the application
of scientific methods; fourth, the existence of a competitive
regitne based on the newer conception of liberty;
fifth, the spread of education and the birth of a distinct
public opinion; sixth, a true democratic spirit and the


### ---Economics-1903-0-10.txt---
growth of a new idealism. What is the real import of
these faetors ?

First, the virtual disappearanee of free land. This
makes slavery forever impossible in the future. Reeellt
investigations have proved beyond the peradventure of
a doubt that slavery as a typieal eeonomie system is
ascribalJle to the existence of vast quantities of untilled
tlJacts suitable for agrieulture. Where any one ean procure
fresh land for nothing, he will not readily work for
another; and when the soil is so exuberantly fertile
that it eall endure the wastefullaess of slave eultivation,
eolnplllsorv and not volu}ltary labor will be the dominant
ellaraeteristic of the produetion. Slavery did not beeollle
important in Greeee 1lntil tlae eolollies yielded vast
stretches of virgin land g the yeotnall farmer in Rome
did not disappear until the world eollquests of the later
republic threw into the market sueh prodigious supplies
of new territory as to ll-lake slave labor on the large
estates luerative. It was preeisely the same eause that
produeed slavery in the West Indies and owl the Aloleriean
eontinent. Those days, however, have gone, never to
return. Fresh supplies of that kind of land are with
insignifieant exeeptions no longer proeurable. The
older eountries are quite filled up, and in the newer
seetions conditions are unfavorable. In both Australia
and Siberia the elitIlate is inimieal to slavery. In South
Ameriea the patnpas are the home of a grazing rather
than of an agrieultural eoulmnnity, and it is well know
that the floek tending and herding life is not eondueive
to slavery on a large seale; on the other hand, the agrieultural
regions of South Ameriea have realized that
slave produetion is inadequate to meet the eompetition
of free labor in the world rtlarket where their produets
are sold. It is only in the mining distriets of South


### ---Economics-1903-0-11.txt---
Afriea alad in the tropieal islands of Asia that the COIlditions
are still favorable to slavery. Were they to
form so eontrolliIlg a part of the elupire as in former
clays in the eolollies of Greeee and Rome, the present
struggle in Ellglandn Holland, Germany, alad the UIlited
States to solve the labor probletn in the clepelldeneieWs
without reeol1rse to eolnpulsion would be far less likely
of aeeomplishmellt. It is beeause the entirely diGerent
eeolaomie systerns and eonsequent soeial ethies of the
mother eountries are now the potent faetors in the world
that we ean eollfidently look -forward to the speedy passing
of slavery in eve1-y part of the globe. Morality, indeed,
is doing its noble work, but at bottom lies the
disappearanee of free land.
Seeonclly, the predominanee of industrial eapital.
Sotne thinkers, from Phaleas of old to the Henry George
and Loria of to-day, aseribe all ot1r soeial troubles to
landed conditions. Others, like Demolills in Franee alad
Brooks Adams at home, tell llS that the eomlnereial
route is the seeret of prosperity and deeadellee. There
is a eertain degree of truth in eaeh of these eontentiolls
as an exp]anation of the past. Both elasses of thinkers,
however, fail to reeognize the essential ellanges brought
about byT 1lloderll industrialism. The eonditions of landholding
undoubtedly played a dominant role in Ronze,
as they did in feudal Europe and eolonial Ameriea.
The eontrol of the trade routes was assuredly the ehief
faetor in the rise and fall of the oriental tnonarehies, of
the Greek eity states, of the Italiala and German towns,
of Portugal and Spain. But why is this? Clearly beeause
of the absellee of industrial eapital. In the one
ease the eeol1omie system was based on the aseendelley
of land as a faetor in production; in the other ease on
the equal or even superior foree of eomlnercial eapital.


### ---Economics-1903-0-12.txt---
In the strict scientific sense, capital has indeed existed
from the time of the first hunter's bow and arrow. But
for practical purposes and for real aid in solving actual
problems, the common man is perfectly justified in
calling this the capitalistic age, just as Karl Marx was
entirely correct in employilag the word " capital " to
describe the essential modern phenomenon. The economist
calls attention to the fact that capital in the
generic sense Inay be put into land, into trade, or into
industry; but to the interpreter of social forces the
typical fortn of capital to-day is industrial capital, as in
feudal times it was landed capital, alad as in so many
civilizations of old it was trade capital. We have only
lately been reminded that classic Greece, for instance,
had its beginnings, its middle ages, and its modern titnes.
But in ancient Greece, even at the height of its power,
slave labor was the chief factor in production, and industry
was predominantly of the small, non-capitalistic
type. Again, the medixval guild systeon of industry
was in almost esZery respect a contrast to our modern
regime. The land problern is no doubt stil] important
in a country like ours where seventy per cent of the
exports are agricultural; the commercial prolDlem is
still important in a country like ours which is seeking
to secure its share in the trade of the newly opened
Orient. But were we to read the signs aright, we should
realize that in our case, as in that of all our great coznpetitors,
the secret of ultimate success is to be sought,
not in the land question, not in ollr trade relations, but
in the fundatnelltal conditions of industrial eIlterprise at
home. Industrial capital as distinct frotn agricultural
ol commercial capital is a product of modem times; it
has never before existed as the tone-giving element of
society; it is destined to produce very diflerent consequences.


### ---Economics-1903-0-13.txt---
Agricultural capital and commercial capital
have been responsible for the landed and trading aristocracies
of the past; industrial capital correctly
analyzed and rightly colstrolled means not industrial
aristocracy, but industrial democracy.
Thirdly, and intimately connected with what had just
been said, is the modern application of scientific methods
to industry. We speak glibly of the recent progress of
science, but few realize the true import of this growing
subjection of nature to man, and of the revolutionary
character of this harnessing of the powers of the universe
to the yoke of the human intellect. For one thing it has
made possible an almost limit]ess increase in production.
Landed capital, under the non-scientific methods of the
past, was able to go so far and no farther. Even when
extensive methods of agriculture were replaced by the
intensive systems, the operation of the law of diminishing
returns soon made itself felt, and marked a limit
beyond which advance was impossible. The advent of
coznmercial capital indeed increased prosperity, and to
the extent that exchange is really a phase of production
augmented the productive power of the world. But here
again its efficiency was limited within narrow bounds.
Creating new values simply by the bartering of existing
values, the pyramid of wealth rested on the basis of the
actual production within each cotnmunity, and could not
be piled up beyond a certain height. But with modern
industrial capital and the snatching from nature of her
intimate secrets, the utilization of natural resources
within each country has become almost boundless, and
provides an ever broadening base for the benefits of trade
and commerce.

It is for this reason that the history of the world in
the future is to be so different from the past. In former


### ---Economics-1903-0-14.txt---
times, after a certain point had been reached in agriculture
and commerce, human ingenuity was powerless
to do more than divide existing wealth; and with this
Exed litnit to production, it is no wonder that each civilization
in turn should have attempted to secure the prize
for itself. Hence the rise, the glory, and the decline of
nations. In future, however, in lieu of dividing existing
wealth, each nation which lives up to its opportunities
will be able to create new wealth. For we must not
forget that science is not only boundless in its possibilities,
but ilz-partial in its activities. Science transcends
all national lines. Never again will a country be able to
achieve or to retain a monopoly of industrial advantages.
For the time being, indeed, climatic conditions or racial
characteristics may give one nation a temporary preponclerance
in some particular category of production;
but with the overwhelming importance of new industrial
methods applicable impartially to all natural forces,
the advantage cannot be permanently retained.
We are accustomed to speak of the economic and
social changes brought about by the alteration in the
media of transportation and the growth of the world
luarket; we do not yet realize the full implication of the
industrial revolution. Rightly conceived it means the
coming internationalistn of mighty etnpires, in friendly
competition with each other, not for the division of what
exists, but for the utilization of what can be made to
exist. For the immediate future, indeed, while nations
are still in uneqally developed stages of industrial
growth and while there remains extended markets not
yet on the highroad to industrial predominance, there
will still be some room for the nationalism of the old
type with its protective features and its cotumercial
struggles. In these contests we must undoubtedly take


### ---Economics-1903-0-15.txt---
our part. But with every decade's progress in science
the conditions will change, and the old nationalism of
exclusiveness will melt into the new cosmopolitanism
based upon the continua] progress of each great and
economically homogeneous community.
The fourth characteristic of the modern age is the
development of the competitive regime. This needs
but little more than a mention. Several of the former
presidents of this Association have made you familiar
with the real meaning of cotnpetition. They have
pointed out that a competition of the right kind is a
necessity to social progress that progress consists not
in doing away with competition but in raising it to a
higher plane; not in suppressing it, but in preserving
and extending it, while substituting a loyal for a disloyal
rivalry. What often seems to be the crushing of
coznpetition is in reality the replacing of a lower by a
higher form. The trade-union movement, for instance,
with the progress from individual to collective bargaining,
seems frozn one point of view to lessen competition,
but no one who understands the real philosophy of the
movement can doubt for a moment that on the whole it
makes for a truer and more perfect competition based
(n the equality of the contending forces. The trust
seems to be the very negation of competition, and yet if
the conditions of loyal and healthy enterprise are insisted
upon, and the trust be not permitted to take advantage
of a legal code lagglllg behind the economic
development, the llet results of the movement may well
prove to be the sloughing off of the evils of a lower
competition and the attaintnent of a higher form of
emulation.

It is precisely here that the force of the fifth factor
becomes apparent, the emergence of a true public


### ---Economics-1903-0-16.txt---
opinion to bolster up this demand for the retention and
strengthening of the right kind of competition. In
antiquity political and social opinion was a class
opinion. In the middle ages the incoherent public
opinion was intolerant to competition. In modern
titnes the progress of econotnic thought and the pressure
of econonaic fact in uplifting the hitherto submerged
classes of the community are generating a public
opinion which frankly recognizes the benefits of a
healthy coznpetitioll, but which insists more and more
on effective social control of competition to the end that
it be elevated and purified.
This is the true uleaning of the sixth point of difference,
the flower and the fruit of all its forerunners, the
existence of the democratic ideal. We point, indeed, with
complacency to the advance made by the working classes,
but to those who realize the essential conditions of successful
democracy, where the mass of citizens are necessarilwT
the laborers, the ideal to be attained advances still
ulore quickly than tl-le actual progress. The brutish,
lethargic peasant of the old world is content witl-l his
crust anci his misery. The free citizen of our industrial
dezzlocracy wants, and wants justly, to participate in the
spiritual as well as the material benefits of tnodern civilization.
With every advance in his econoznic position,
due to the interplay of modern industrial forces, new
vistas of possibilities discloce themselves, new sources
of legitimate satisfaction make their appearance. The
social unrest of to-day, with all its disquieting and deplorable
incidents, is on the whole a salutary symptom.
It is bllt the labor-pains in the birth of the new industrial
order which has been in the making for the past few
generations, and of which the faint outlines are even now
discernible.


### ---Economics-1903-0-17.txt---
A stud; of the econoznic forces now at work thus justifies
a reasonable hopefulness. The productinre powers of
society are augmenting at such a prodigious rate that we
need 1lo longer apprehend a decay of general prosperity
or of natural power. There is to be no fl1rtller irruption
of the barbarian, because there will soon be no more
barbarians. There is to be no swinging back of the
pendulum of civilization, because under the inlqllence of
the new economic forces only those nations can succeed
that understand how to utilize industrial capital, and
this comprehension implies an ever ascending stage of
civilization. There is to be no domination of each nation
in turn over all the others, because of the inter-nationality
of science and the impartial territorial diSusion of
industrial agencies. And within each nation, while the
rich are getting richer, the poor are not getting poorer.
The creation of a ulore equable, because a more perfect,
competition through the development of the system of
collective bargaining and the more adequate supervision
of monopoly; the recognition on the part of the legislator
that lasting prosperity depends not only on the
conservation and free play of capital bl1t on the gradl1al
elevation of the laborer frorn a cheap man to a dear man;
the coming social control of coznpetition itself in the interests
of a ulore enlightened and 11ence really freer
rivalry, all these will inevitably tend to secure to each
class in the community its proper share in the national
dividend.

This is not fatalism. This is not the preaching of
" hands off." Far from it ! Man is a product of history,
but history is luade by man. Modern economic forces
indeed provide new opportunities for all. But whether
the correct use be made of the opportunities depends on
the wisdom, the energy, the capacity of each individual,


### ---Economics-1903-0-18.txt---
of each social class, of each community. The economic
life is the basis of social progress, but the economic
environment which conditions this life is fast becoming
an artificially created environment. In the creation of
this etavironment there is a continually growing sphere
for the conscious activity of the social group. With
the subordination of the individual to the social interest,
to the advantage of individual and society alike, there
is an ever enlarging field and ever more pressing need
for the wise regulation which will ensure a more even,
a more equable, and a more harmonious development.
Economic theory, therefore, has a progressively important
role to play in the future. With the cotnmandi
ng significance of the economic life in its influence
on social progress, economics, in pointing out
exactly what is, will inevitably concern itself with
what ought to be. If the economist is the real
philosopher of social life, he will take a more notable
part in future speculation and future legislation. The
different social classes, by reason of their very being,
see only the particular, not the general interests. The
farmer understands the workings of Wall Street and the
factory hand comprehends the condition of the world
market as little as the capitalist realizes the true ideals
of the laborer. To let any one class act as spokesman
for the other is pregnant with danger. The economist,
if he is worthy of his calling, will proceed without fear
or favor; he will be tabooed as a socialist by some, as a
minion of capital by others, as a theorist by more; but
if he preserves his clearness of vision, his openness of
mind, his devotion to truth, and his sanity of judgment,
the deference paid to his views, which is even now beginning
to be apparent in this country, will become
more and more pronounced. The influence of economic