
# E1
 ## Economics-1888-0


### ---Economics-1888-0-01.txt---
The intensity which the great debate regarding
the so-called "relations of labor and capital" has
acquired during the past year, seems to me almost to
demand that at this, the first general meeting of the
American Economic Association held since its organlization
in 1885, a subject of such great and pressing
importance should receive more consideration
than has been assigned it in the programme of
papers to be read during our session; and I have,
therefore, decided to take for my theme "Efforts of
the Manual Laboring Class to Better their Condition.
"

From no other point could we obtain an. equally
impressive view of the progress which has been
made in economic thought during the past twentyfive
years. At the beginning of that period, the
accepted philosophy of the subject, both in England
and America, declared that the manual laboring
class were not called upon to make any efforts for
themselves in order to secure their just distributive
share of the product of industry. It was then held
by all economists of reputation in either country,
that the compet-ition of employers among' themselves


### ---Economics-1888-0-02.txt---
for the pro-fits of employment amply sufficed to fix.
the rate of wages as high as it could be maintained
without an injurious reaction. The laborer was not
called upon to seek his interest ; his interest would
seek him and would find him. Even unfair methods
and a grasping spirit on the part of employers could
not, in the long result, impair the remuneration of
labor.

" :Unless." said Prof. John E. Cairnes, having in
view- the forcing do-w-n of wages by a combination of
employers, "' unless we are to suppose tthe charact ,er
of a large section of a community to be suddenly
changed in a leading attribute, the wealth so withdramwvn-
from wages would, in the end and before

long0, be restored to wages. The same motives which
led to its investment would lead to its reinvestment;
and, once reinvested, the interests of those concerned
would cause it to be distributed amongst the several
elements of capital in the same proportions as before.
In this way covetousness is held in check by covetousness,
and the desire for aggrandizement sets

limits to its own gratification."

ccIf, in the division between profits and wages,"
saiid Prof. Perry, " at the end of any industrial cycle
profits get more than their due share, those very
profits will wish to become capital, and will thus
become an extra demand for labor, and the next
wages fund will be larger than the last." And the
same economist wrote elsewhere: "If capital gets a
relatively too large reward, nothing can interrupt
the tendency that labor shall get, in consequence of
that, a larger reward the next time. If capital takes
an undue advantage of labor at any point, as unfortunately
it sometimes does, somebody, at some


### ---Economics-1888-0-03.txt---
other point, has, in consequence of that, a stronger
,desire to employ laborers ; and so the wrong tends
to right itself."

While, thus, the action of competition among the
emiploying classes themselves, for the profits of
employment, was certain, eveni in spite of a grasping
spirit and unfair me-tIhods, to yield the highest rate
of wages which the existing conditions of industry
would allow to be paid, distinct efforts on the part
of the laboring class to secuLre a larger share of the
product, could, at the best, only be. nugatory, and
would be more than likely to prove mischievous.
How great the 'change in economic opinion!
To-day, few economists of reputation would deny
that the laboring class have as real, as large, as
vital a part to perform in securing a just and beneficial
distribution of the product of industry, as the
employing class. It is seen and admitted, that competition
must be imperfect, and, by consequence,

injurious, uLnless the laborers, on their side, are as
alert, active and, in the primary sense of that term,
as aggressive, in pursuing their economic interests,
as the old theories of distribution assumed that the
employing class would be. It is seen and admitted
that, if the workman does not seek his interest, not
only will he, in a degree, lose his interest, but,
through his failure to receive all the economic good
wiThich might with proper effort have been brought
to him, immediate injuries, tending to become permanent,
not only may conceivably, but certainly

-will, be inflicted upon the whole industrial body.
It is seen that it is for the interest, the particular,
selfish interest of the employing class themselves,
that, in all their dealings with the questions of work


### ---Economics-1888-0-04.txt---
and wages, alike in large matters and in small, they
should have to do with men -who are acute and alert
in seeking out opportunities for their own industrial
improvement, with men who are persistent and courageous
in following up every possible industrial advantage,
when once it has been riightly discerned;
that they should have to do, not with men who have
no opinion for themselves, what they ought to receive,
and who humbly and thankfully take that

which may be given, but with men who, not less as
laborers than as citizens, shall know their rights and,
knowing, dare maintain.

In a word, we have recently passed through a
change in economic opinion equally important with,
and indeed closely analogous to, that great change in
political opinion, which began more than a hundred
years ago, and which was accomplished, not without
trouble and turmoil, not till after great waste and
hideous losses, about the middle of this century.
Under the old regime, the accepted philosophy of
government declared that certain privileged persons
and classes were the natural and proper guardians of
the mass of the people; that the interests of all, rich
and poor, high and low, were so bound up together
that if one member suffered the others must suffer
with it; that, inasmuch as the state could only be
Wealthy and strong through the prosperity of all,
there was in this a sufficient guaranty against abuse
and neglect of the lower classes on the part of the
higher, and that, under these conditions, all authority
might, not only safely but advantageously, be lodged
with that part of the community which had the most
leisure, and aptitude for government, in which resided
the highest intelligence, the widest culture, the
strongest instincts of command.


### ---Economics-1888-0-05.txt---
It is not necessary to recite the arguments from
reason or the blows from force by which "owe have
changed all this" in the domain of politics. It is
now universally seen and admitted that there is no
security against tyranny, save in the power and disposition
to resist and resent tyranny; that the masses
of the people are the only proper and safe guardians
of their own interests; that it is just as truly and
just as much for the welfare of the upper classes as
of the lower classes themselves, that the latter should
be bold and resolute, quick to see their interests,
prompt to assert them, persistent in maintaining
them.

In economic opinion the change, may I not say
the revolution? began much later; but it has been
carried through at once more rapidly and more peacefully:
first, because the other revolution had already
been effected, preparing the way for this; and,
secondly, because of the greater volume and force of
entirely disinterested sentiment operating in the
later case.

It would scarcely be conceivable to-day that an
economist of learning and reputation should gravely
argue that the employer is, in effect, a trustee of the
laborer's wages, and that it really does not matter
whether, in any given time and place, he pays the
laborer more or pays him less, since by as much as
the employer may under-pay the laborer in any instance,
by so much will he certainly and indefeasibly
over-pay him in some subsequent instance. The economists
now see, what the workmen long ago saw,

that each man is the natural trustee of his own earnings,
and that these are only safe when paid into his
own hands.


### ---Economics-1888-0-06.txt---
This change in economic opinion did not come all
at once. Its first manifestation was perhaps in 1864,
when Prof. Fawcett, regarding -whom a distinguished
English economist wrote me, at the time of his
lamented death, that one-half of his actual intimidate
daily companions were laboring men, announced at
Camnbridge his conviction that, while the rate of
wages was, in ordinary times, determined altogether
irrespective of the efforts of the working classes to
secuLre their own interests, yet, in transitional periods,
wNihen rapid alterations of industrial conditions were
taking place, combinations of laborers might be
effectual to win some portion of what would otherwise
go in enhanced and excessive profits. That change
of opinion has proceeded to the present time when,
as previously stated, it is fully recognized that the
self-assertion of the laboring class importantly contributes
to the equitable and beneficial distribution
of wealth; and that such self-assertion, wit hin
proper limits and by proper agencies, is not more for
the interest of the laboring class than of the employing
class, or of the community as a whole.

Inasmuch as so short a period has elapsed since
there was a general consent of economic opinion that
*all distinct efforts of the laboring class, directed to
the advancement of their own interests, must at the
best be useless, and might and probably would become
mischievous, it is not at all surprising that wide
differences in belief should still exist as to the limits
w-ithin w-hich such efforts should be confined and as
to the agencies by which they should be conducted.
Even were scholars only concerned, it would necessarily
take muich time to educe the full philosophy of
such a subject; -to give to powerful agencies, so


### ---Economics-1888-0-07.txt---
recently for the first time recognized, their due place
and mode of working, that they should do only good
and not also lharm, or even that they should, in the
immediate instaiice, do more good than harm. When
the problem is, not to secure agreemnelnt among a body
of scholars as to the limits within which such agencies
may safely and advantageously operate, but to instruct
alnd educate the whole mass of the laboring
population so that they shall use formidable powers,
of which they have so lately become fully conscious,
without feeling prompted to abuse them, even under
the stress of seeming interest, even under the excitements
of passion, even under the seductions of demagogues
and professional agitators, it would be altogether
marvelous if so short a period should have
sufficed for so great a work.

In addition to the grave inherent difficulties attendaant
on the use of the now well-recognized agencies of
the trade-union and the strike, the industrial situation
has been greatly complicated during the past two or
three years by the suddeii introduction into the field
of controversy of two most formidable agencies, the
Boycott and the general conf ederation of trade-unions
under the title Knights of Labor. This it, immediately,
is that has created that tremendous turmoil,
which to many seems to presage universal industrial
anarchy. The arming of the laboring class with
these weapons has at the same time increased their
power of doing mischief and excited a spirit of
restiveness, and even of aggressiveness, never
before known. That much evil will. not in the
first instance be done by the reckless, irresponsible
and even wanton use of these new powers,
it would be puerile to expect. Those who doubt that


### ---Economics-1888-0-08.txt---
the laboring class will, later or sooner, after more or
less injury to themselves and to the commercial and
industrial system, either discard these formidable
weapons, or learn to handle them without suffering
or doing mischief, have less faith in popular intelligence
and public virtue than bents the citizens of a
free government.

I have said that the immediate cause of the unprecedented
labor troubles during the past two or

three years has been the invention of certain new
and formidable weapons of industrial warfare. The
primary cause, however, is to be found, as I am disposed
to believe, in the great advances -which of late
have been made in the condition of the laboring class.
It is, of course, the way of the labor orators and the
labor press to speak of the recent strikes as the revolt
of down-trodden and suffering masses; as due to
hCardships and indignities which manhood could no
longer bear. As a matter of indisputable fact these
strikes have not proceeded from the least, but from
the most fortunate portion of the working population.
It has not been common, but skilled labor that has
been concerned. It has not been hopeless misery,
but growing ambition. which has prompted nearly all
the demands which it has been sought to enforce by
the last resort. Not the bare necessaries or decencies
of life, but comfort and enjoyment and opportunities
for social improvement have been involved. The
strikers of the past two years have, as a rule, been
those who were already receiving wages far above
the average of the population.

And it has largely been for this reason, viz.: because
of their comparative inrosperity, that they have
become so confident of tlieir ability to wrest a still


### ---Economics-1888-0-09.txt---
larger share of the product of industry. The gain
they have already realized has in part been due to
more favorable material conditions of existence, to
the discovery of new resources and powers in nature,
and to advances in the arts of production and tranisportation;
in part;, also, to the social movement of
the age, in which all classes have in a greater or less
degree shared; in part it may have been obtained at
the expense of unorganized labor and of the agricultural
population; much, also, unquestionably has
been the result of the more active and aggressive
pursuit of their interests by the organized working
class.

That this last part of the total eff ect should be
exaggerated, and that laborers should attribute all,
or nearly all, of what they have gained to their own
efforts is not unnatural, nor is it strange that they
look to the same course for further good to themselves.


It is idle for any ole to say that tle working classes
have, indeed, accomplished much for themselves by
their combined efforts in the past, but that we have
now reached the industrial stage when nothing more
is to be expected from this source, and laborers should,
therefore, rest content with what they have already
won. No living man knows enough of the conditions
of industry to justify him in asserting anything like
this; but it seems to me that the expectations of the
body of laborers, at least if we can trust to the expressions
of their organs and orators, have becom-ie so
exaggerated, and the interpretation which they place
upon the success attained in the past is so far strained
or false, as to make it probable that large bodies of
working men in different parts of our country will


### ---Economics-1888-0-10.txt---
have to sustain some very severe and distressing rebuffs,
defeats, and losses, in conflicts with the employing
class, before they will learn the proper limits
within which they may seek to enforce further demands
for diminished time and enhanced wages; before
they will come to appreciate the very close and
stringent restrictions which nature has placed upon
the remuneration of human labor. Many of those who
profess to speak for the working classes, and in turn
to instruct them as to their rights and interests, are
now talking as if the sole reason why the body of
laborers have made advances in the past has been
because they have enforced demands by united action,
and as if the only requisite for the concession of any
claim they may be disposed to make in the future,
will be unfaltering persistence. Ideas like these will
be found as pernicious as they are false; and if the
very large amount of talk of this sort now inldulged
in by the labor press and labor agitators means that
those who control the course of labor organizations
really eiitertain such wild notions, there is a great
deal of misery in store for the masses whom they are
thus misleading.

There never has been an advance of wages or an
improvement in the conditions of labor for which a
sound and sufficient reason of a purely economic
character did not at the time and in the place exist.
If on any occasion laborers have received more wages
for the same work, or the same wages for a shorter
day, and have enjoyed this gain without a subsequent
reaction to their more than proportional loss and injury,
it has been, not because the workmen themselves
desired this; not even because they needed it
most painfully and pitifully; not because sentimentalists


### ---Economics-1888-0-11.txt---
aiid philanthropists yearned for it on their
account; not because the demand was enforced by
uiiitecl action, carried to a point which threatened
the employers with loss or, perhaps, ruin; but it has
been for the reason that the conditions of production
and trade allowed such concessions to be made without
impairing the disposition to accumulate capital
for industrial uses, and without cutting to the quick
into the profits of business, which, under the existing
organization of industry, constitute the sole motive
to the production of wealth. Where these conditions
are met the urgent, persistent demands of the laboring
class, as well as the active sympathy of the
general community, will undoubtedly help to secure,
if, indeed, they are not essential to securing advantages
which might otherwise be withheld. Where
these collditions are not met, demands for increasing
wages or shortening the term of labor will either be
refused by the employing class, or if enforced by
united action under circumstances which compel an
immediate compliance, they will be granted, in the
given time and place, only at the cost of the general
community, and in especial of the laboring class,
first of all, last of all, and most of all.
The part which laborers are, under modern conditions,
called to perform in influencing the distribution
of the product of industry, is not a part in which
they are to do whatever is agreeable to themselves,
without careful consideration of the rights and interests
of others, and without direct responsibility for
the effects of wrongful and injudicious action. It is
just as fully true that there are no industrial rights
without corresponding duties as it is that there are
no political rights without corresponding duties.


### ---Economics-1888-0-12.txt---
In the. industrial republic, as in the political republic,
power com-es to the masses accompanied by the
gravest responsibilities, and in one as in the other
the abuse or the wanton exercise of power will inflict
its worst injuries upon the humblest members of the
commulnUity. In et-lher republic instruction as to the
duties and responsibilities of citizenship is more
needed than instruction as to the right and powers
of citizenship. Certainly during the past few years
there has been much ignore thought of the latter than
of the former among, those who assume to prom-note the
interests of the laboring class; yet nothing could be
mnore prejudicial t'o those interests, when rightly
view-Ted, than that the impression should be created
am-iong the body of wNiorking me i that there is anything
they can take without giving its fair and full
equivalent; that they can use the immense force
which resides in co neerted action without direct and
immediate accountability for every injury which may
be inflicted thereby upon production and trade; thalt
they can harass employers by incessant deLmands,
extort undue concessions, and render it unsafe to
undertake contracts, involving large expendittures
extending over considerable periods of time, without
in the result suffering far m-ore evil than they can
possibly inflict upon the employing or the capitalist
class. Emnphatically it is true in industrial warf-are,
that they who take the sword shall perish by the
sword, and those are only enemies of the working
classes who incite them -to take up arms in a light
quarrel, or, in any cause, without counting well and
carefully the cost.

Such and so grave are the responsibilities which
attend all efforts of the laboring classes to improve


### ---Economics-1888-0-13.txt---
their own economic condition through concert and
combination. They constitute no reason why such
eff orts should not for a sufficient cause and in a clear
case be made, but they render imperative the requirement
of prudneace, conservatism, and the utmost exercise
of the spirit of fairness, courtesy, and conciliation.
For one I have great confidence in the good
sense a n& good temper of the American people,
,,whether in dealing wvith thre difficult problems of
their political life, or in dealing vith the problems,
fast becoming even more intricate aid complicated,
of their industrial life. It is not like an American
to persist in unreasonable demands, to require the
brutal demonstration of complete defeat and exhaustioii
of resources before retiring from a contest that
should not have been- joined, or to use violence and
rudeness in overbearing competition and lawful a1ntagonism.
An American has not pleasure, but pain,

in thle cessation of industry, in loss of time, in
motionless machinery; while the wrecking of wealth,
whichI has been created to serve human uses, outrages
every sensibility of this emine-ntly constructive
animal. Nor in vain have our people for generations
been endowed with the franchise and invited to the
discussion and decision of public questions. Their
political experiences have afforde-,d themn not a little
econlomic education, no slight preparation. and training'
for t-he important part they are called to perform
in effecting an equitable and beneficial distribution
of the product ofL industry. The ordinary American
can be reasoned wNvith, and that not on a low plane
only. He is capable of understanding and appreciating
almost any consideration relating to the factory
or the market which his employer mAay have occasion


### ---Economics-1888-0-14.txt---
to adduce. His spirit is that of civility, reciprocity,
and fair play. He intelligently and cordially accepts,
in its full economic bearing, the maxim "live and let
live. "

But the problem is not allowed to remain as simple
as it would be with a population all of this character.
More, even, than our political situation, has our industrial
situation been complicated by the accession
of millions of laborers, born in distant lands, bred
under other institutions, breathing a different spirit,
and, by just the degree of that difference, less prepared
to use without abuse the power wielded by organized
labor. On this point I propose to speak with the
utmost frankness. The matter is one of vital importance
to our peace and prosperity.

No one can have carefully observed the developments
of the past year or two years without becoming
aware that a part so large that it may fairly be
called the whole of those violent and reckless attacks
upon production and transportation which have
shocked the industrial system, and have come near
to producing a general crisis of trade, have proceeded
from the foreign elements of our population.
I do not assert that all or the larger part of our
adopted citizens have joined in or sympathized with
those movements. On the contrary, much that is of
the best in our political and physical character has
come from abroad; while the great majority of immigrants
into the United States, even since the war,
have shown marvelous aptitudes for our modes of
life, an active sympathy with the prevailing spirit
and temper of our people, a cheerful readiness to submit
to the conditions under which alone free government
and popular initiative can be long sustained,


### ---Economics-1888-0-15.txt---
an honorable eagerness to flind and keep a place where
they might both get good and do good, in the political,
social and industrial order.

But no one can have failed to notice that, in the
frightfully accelerated imnmiigLation of the past few
years, there is not only aii increasing number but an
increasing proportion of those who come to us,
largely from countries which have only recently
attained importance upon thle passenger lists of our
ocean steamers, with a spirit aid temper which is
not only hostile to our political institutions, but
which at once and inevitably introduces into the
relations of employer and employed a rudeness,
savagery and insolence to which trade and production
will not submit.

These men, if one may judge from their actions,
do not purpose to give as well as take, to live and,
also, l-et live; they show no sense of the responsibility
under which the powers they find put into their
hands are to be exercised; they know no measure
for their demands, and make little reserve as to the
methods by which they seek to enforce those demands.
Such a spirit and temper, introduced, it may
almost literally be said, for the first time into American
industry, has already done vast and far-reaching
injury to society, and now menaces us with even
graver evils. The correctness of this explanation
of our recent labor troubles cannot be gainsaid.
Whether among the freight handlers of New York,
or among the operatives of the coal and iron districts
of New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Ohio, or among
the railroad employes of the West and South west,
those who have initiated measures intended forcibly
to arrest the movements of production and transportation,


### ---Economics-1888-0-16.txt---
and have carried these to extremes subversive
of the general interest and even threatening the existence
of society itself, have not been men born on
our soil, bred under our laws and trained in our
schools. Such movements may, here and there, have
found native leaders, whose superior education and
political training gave them influence over the inflamed
masses of labor; but the force and impulse of
these attacks upon social interests, and even upon
society itself, has been of foreign derivation; while
every out-break- of violence which has accompanied
the labor troubles of the last two years, whether in
Chicago, or St. Louis, or at Rock Springs, has uniformly
been characterized by the almost, if not altogether,
complete absence of participants of native
birth. In the atrocious assault upon the Chinese,
which occurred at the last-mentioned place in the
year 1885, in which nearly fifty aLnoffending persons
lost their lives, it was ascertained that miot omne man
born upon our soil was engaged.

It is not a matter of surprise, perhaps not altogether
a matter of blame, that men reared under institutions
of pure force, miany of them bred in an

atmosphere of conspiracy, cherishing traditions of
political injustice, perhaps inheriting bitter hatred
of law anmd government, at the best uuntrained ii
political action and unaccustomed to -the responisibilities
of citizenship, should exhibit less of self-control
amid of respect for the rights of others, than miharacterizes
the conduct of our own people. But mio feelimig
of sympathy toward the oppressed or unfortunate
of other lamids, no sentiment of hospitality
toward those who have newly come among us, requires
that Americans should permit their own


### ---Economics-1888-0-17.txt---
proper interests to be seriously impaired, much less,
the peace and good order of the community to be
endangered, by alien elements. I should be as far
as any one from desiring the revival of proscriptive
Know-nothingism; but I believe the full time has come
for Americans to assert themselves against those
who come into our land to trouble it; who create
turmoil for no good reason; who agitate and distract
industry with needless alarms and wanton attacks;
and who pervert the bountiful privileges of our citizenship
by a spirit and by methods which can only find
excuse when employed against hereditary privilege
and arbitary power.

This is not a case where the better elements of
society have no means of redress or self-defence. It
will not be necessary to change the prescriptions or
presumptions of our laws. It will only be needful
that public sentiment should be fully aroused to the
evils inflicted upon society and industry by the
wanton and reckless proceedings which have characterized
the past few years; that the body of fairminded
and well-disposed laborers should realize
-that these things are done to their hurt and loss;
that sentimentalists aud philanthropists should refrain.
from holding out expectations of economic
benefits impossible to be realized under the hard conclitions
of human existence; that the press should
cease to greet every fresh demand for higher wages
or fewer hours of work as being presumptively
right, instead of being a matter for close scrutiny,
careful deliberation, courteous debate and judicial
determination; that timid or time-serving magistrates
should be braced up by public opinion to protect
every citizen in his right to labor when and


### ---Economics-1888-0-18.txt---
where lhe pleases, in whatever avocation, for whatever
employer and oln whatever terms he may individtially
choose.

Given only these conditions, wrhieh are no more
than we have a right to expect from the good sense
of our own people, when once the evil effects of
recent courses shall come to be fully appreciated, we
shall have no mnore instances of tens of thousands of
workmen dragged by force or threats into contests
in which they have no interest, andi which t-heir own
judgment and temper render distasteful no more
instances of violent hands laid on the throat of the
social organism, in attempts to arrest the whole
movement of production, and to wreck the machinery
of transportation, of which all have equal need and
in which all have equal rights; no more instances of
large districts forcibly deprived of the necessaries of
life, of the commerce of the nation laid under a lawless
embargo, of great cities threatened with darkness,
riot and pillage in the name of struggling
labor.

For one, I firmly believe, that the boycott will disappear
as suddenly as it of late appeared, condemned
not less by public sentiment than by law, as
unfair, unjust and mischievous, the proper tool of
malice only, a weapon not needed for any legitimate
purpose of society.

The future of the remarkable movement to supersede
trade-unions by a general confederation of the
workmen of all trades and of all sections, under
highly concentrated and centralized authority, I shall
not undertake to predict. It is conceivable that such
an organization might become a great educational
force, a useful agency for directing the legitimate


### ---Economics-1888-0-19.txt---
efforts of laborers of the several sections and trades
of the couiitry towards the improvement of their
condition:, a source of much inspiration, through the
deliberations alld debates of earnest mnen representing
the better sense and higher purposes of vast
bodies of laborers who are, ill the main, right-miinided,
honest, and patriotic.

Nor is it fair, nor is it worthy of any thinICier or
scholar, to attribute to esseiltial vices in such a scheme
the mistakes, errors, and follies hardly separable
from the beginniiigs of so great and wide-reaching an
enterprise. Tried by such a test free government
itself was once pronounced a failure.

But I cannot conceal my conviction that the attempt
to embrace so much within the sway of any human
authority; to legislate in detail for so many conflicting
interests; to cover with any single rule conditions
of life and labor so widely diverse as those of
city and country, of east and west, of agriculturist
and artizan, of common and skilled labor, will inevitably
result in failure. The restiveness shown by
many of the trade-unions, the open revolt in some
cases, already intimate the weakness of the scheme,
if it is to be administered in the masterful spirit of
the past two years.

Whether the organization known as the Knights
of Labor is to break up in a general insurrection of
its constituent members; or is to lapse into "an innocuous
desuetude," relinquishing to the trade-unions
their former authority over their own members, retaining
for itself but the shadow of the ilame; or is
to take on a form and assume functions compatible
with industrial peace and with the steady and even
progress of trade and production, will depend somewhat


### ---Economics-1888-0-20.txt---
upon the wisdom of those who have come, almost
adventitiously, into possession of the vast powers
which that organization now w NTields, but will be mainly
determined by the good sense and good feeling of
the whole American people when fully aroused by
tbe issue thus presented to our industrial life.
 ## Economics-1889-0


### ---Economics-1889-0-01.txt---
On this our third general meeting it seems appropriate
to congratulate the Association, not more upon
the results achieved through our union and cooperation
in economic effort, than upon the position of
advantage and of influence which the Association
at present occupies.

Since its organization, in 1885, the society has
steadily grown in numbers; the spirit of association
has become more active among us; a cordial recognition
has greeted our early efforts, both at home and
abroad; branches have been established in several
cities, which have thus become new centres of economic
activity; the publications of the society, now
comprising three volumes, have embraced many
valuable contributions to knowledge, have steadily
increased in the range of their subject matter and
improved in the originality and validity of treatment.
It may be said that the first stage of our history,
as an Association, has passed. Not merely has the
question of the usefulness of the society been affirmatively
settled by the work done and by the reception
accorded our efforts; but a certain palpable
change has come over ourselves, as a body.
Originally there was exhibited in our gatherings a
certain attitude of antagonism. Whether due to our
'The opening exercises were not held at the first session of the


### ---Economics-1889-0-02.txt---
OWnl aggressiveness, as some of our early critics declared,
or assumed by us in proper defense and selfassertion
against a tone and a spirit in the reviews
and the accepted organs of economic orthodoxy,
which would have denied us any place to work in the
field of economics, it certainly, at the outset, existed.
This has wholly disappeared, partly, perhaps, because
of the modifications of our OWnl attitude towards
others, though not through any change in our economic
position, but chiefly because of a steady movement
of economic thought in the very direction which
was pointed out in our first articles of union. To
this movement we may fairly claim to have contributed,
though by far the greater part of it originated
in forces which we did not set in motion; which
began and had proceeded far before our association
took place.

Partly by what we have done and even more by
what has been done for us; partly through a wise and
conciliatory attitude adopted towards others, and
even more through the change wrought by the general
movement I have spoken of in the attitude of
others towards the objects we profess, it has come
about that, whereas we were looked upon at Saratoga,
in 1885, as an economic sect, we now embrace clearly
all the active economic workers of the United States.
What is that general economic movement which
has done so much more for us than we have done for
ourselves; which has had so much greater effect in
altering the relations of the Association to the economists
of the country, than any actual change in our
organization or methods, or in our avowed objects ?
This recent movement, as it is witnessed in the
United States, is, in part, only our share of a movement


### ---Economics-1889-0-03.txt---
which has, during the same period, been going
on in all countries in which men think and write
onl economic themes; in perhaps greater part, it is the
deferred effect of causes which have been operating
for many years abroad, but which, from our lack of
vital communication with the economic thinkers of
Europe, have come to make their full impression
upon us only after ong delay.

The relation of American to European economists
during the period which preceded the past ten or fifteen
years, was not one that was likely to be productive
of great results. We had a right, in the United
States, to do much for political economy. In a new
country, where tradition and prescription passed for
little; where land was abundant and settlement was
still in progress; where no deep lines had been drawn
to prevent the freest social and commercial movement,
the American economists enjoyed a royal opportunity
for studying industrial forces in their highest
purity and simplicity. But, unfortunately for
economic science, those who, in this country, gave
their lives to these studies, became divided early and
decisively on the issue, largely a false issue, between
so-called protection and free-trade. Ethical and political
considerations were held to require that an
economist should, first of all, range himself as a protectionist
or as a free trader, which was much as if
it were to be demanded that a citizen should be altogether
a peace man, in the sense of opposing war for
any cause, under any circumstances; or altogether a
war man, in the sense of seeking to multiply and to
magnify the occasions of international dispute.
Our economists, thus unhappily divided on an issue
which I have ventured to call a false issue, entertained


### ---Economics-1889-0-04.txt---
little respect for any of the opposing faction;
took small pains to study each others' works, except
to find ground for controversy; and, in their resort to
the teachings of European economists, confined their
attention almost exclusively to those from whom they
could expect corroboration of their own views.
The protectionists, giving but a slight, hasty, and
prejudiced consideration to the English economists,
sought comfort and support from the German masters,
having, however, a very inadequate conception
of the German historical and statistical method, and
little sympathy with the profound, sincere, passionless
spirit of German research.

The free traders, on the other hand, openly contemning
German economists as vague and visionary,
unsubstantial and illogical, resorted more and more
for argument and illustration to the English writers,
neglecting, in the earnestness of their partisanship,
not only the vast practical modifications of the doctrine
of Laissez-Faire which British statesmen were,
not slowly or timidly, introducing into their governmental
scheme, but even the expressed qualifications
and provisos with which the highest exponents of
English economic thought set forth doctrines which
were brought over to America in. their crudest and
strongest forms. Our free-trade writers, with Chinese
fidelity, even copied the palpable defects of English
economists, as when they adopted into their
system the doctrine of the Wages Fund, which was
purely an outgrowth of peculiar and insular conditions
in England, and which was flatly contradicted
by the commonest facts of daily experience among us.
This unscientific and unscholarly attitude of the
two schools in America continued long after a rapprochememt


### ---Economics-1889-0-05.txt---
began between the English and the German
economists themselves, aided greatly, I venture
to suggest, by the remarkable sagacity and fidelity
with which the French writers received, interpreted
and expressed the real thought of both. That movement
towards, if not the consent, at least the cooperation
of European economists, has rapidly gone forward,
to the inexpressible advantage of political economy.
I do not mean to say that there has been such
an approach of the German and the English economists
towards each other that the two bodies have in
any sense lost their distinctive characters; nor do I
regard such a result as desirable. It is well that
there should be a national flavor to the economic
thought of each country; that national predilections,
industrial peculiarities, habits of thinking, modes of
living, should influence, and, more or less, mould its
economic investigation and speculation.

But while the German economists remain truly
German, and the English economists preserve their
individuality, each body has, in these late years,
drawn largely from the other; and in general, has
taken the best. The German economics have become
more practical and more responsible, more systematic
and more highly integrated. The English economists
have, more and more, incorporated into the premises
of their reasoning the results of biological and historical
research.

But this rapprochement of the European economists
for a long while had little apparent effect upon the
attitude of the two economic sects in America. It
was not until about the time of the organization
of this society that any decided tendency appeared
towards the concert and cooperation of our economists,


### ---Economics-1889-0-06.txt---
without regard to the lines which had previously
kept them apart, or to the wide differences
of opinion on many points which still exist.
The purpose of the society founded at Saratoga, in
1883, was to promote economic research and investigation.
That purpose was, in part, overlaid by certain
declarations and statements which were not
needful, and which proved embarrassing. But the
real object of the Association was so manifest that
many economic workers at once joined in the movement,
in spite of objections which they reasonably
entertained; while every succeeding session has witnessed
welcome accessions to our ranks, until to-day
the membership of the society fully justifies its title,
the American Economic Association.

That indifference, distrust, antagonism, have so
largely disappeared, is not mainly due to any positive
work which the society has done, in this short
interval, or to the wholesome influence of this first
effort in securing union and cooperation among the
economists of our country. That effect has, in
greater measure, been the result of the rapid accomplishment
here of work long preparing throughout

the economic world generally; in part, also, to a
mighty forward movement which has everywhere
been taking place, during the last few years,
by which it has come about that, while differences
of opinion among economists are as great,
if not indeed, in some respects, greater than ever
before [notably, in the matter of the degree of
state action which should be invoked], the difficulties
formerly withstanding economic cooperation
have melted out of view. The economist is
now known to all as an economist, on whichever


### ---Economics-1889-0-07.txt---
side of the Atlantic Ocean or of the British Channel
he may live, or whatever views he may hold as to
free trade or protection. So great has been the
change in this respect that there are few so bigoted
as to wish to retard the movement towards union in
economic work.

Such a result does not imply indifference, for it is
accompanied by a zealousness of effort, an earnestness
of purpose, never before exhibited, and by undiminished
positiveness of conviction as to individual
views.

The several successive stages in the economic
movement, the world over, which has brought about
the Communion of Economists, have been marked
by the disappearance of one after another of certain
ideas and feelings which had long withstood such a
result. In this progress we had, first, the emnancipation
of political economy from the persistent influence
of natural theology. The assumption of a
beneficent order of things, originally established in
a golden age, departure from which is the sole cause
of all evils, past and present, and which only needs
to be returned to in order to secure general happiness
and universal well-being, made its appearance
in the first beginnings of economic thought, and has
clung around political economy ever since, impeding
its progress and often perverting its course.
If one wishes to trace the influence of this cause,
he has only to note the use of the word "natural"
in the writings of the English and the American economists,
from Adam Smith down to a recent time.

To prove that a certain arrangement or procedure
was the natural one, has generally been. considered
as establishing the expediency of that arrange ment


### ---Economics-1889-0-08.txt---
or procedure. Indeed, the tone in which this argument
has been used shows that it was not regarded
as admitting a reply.

I have no quarrel with natural theology; but I do
assert the right of political economy to be entirely
independent of it. If the established order of things
be really beneficent, any social arrangement which
can be shown to be natural can be shown, by an
adequate induction from the observed facts of its
operation, to be coniducive to human happiness. If
that can be shown, it is enough for the statesman or
the economist. What need have we of further witness?
On the other hand, those who do not believe
in a golden age; who believe that mankind were
once naked, hairy savages, living in caves and forests,
subsisting on wild fruits or raw flesh, the latter,
often, of their own kind, using stone implements,
and, for uncounted generations, ignorant even of the
use of fire, have the right to protest against the employment
of this argument; and to demand that any
social arrangement, any procedure, any institution,
which is claimed to be for good shall be proven to be
such by evidence which they can accept.

It would not do to take the time that would be necessary
to show, by adequate citation, how extensive
has been the perversion of economic inquiry, caused
by the subjection of political economy to the supposed
claims of natural theology, especially in the
United States, where the two chairs were often
united, as of old, in Adam Smith's case. Nor is this
necessary. The matter is now one of historical interest
only. The temper of self-assertion, proper to
the teachers of any subject, has been re-enforced by
the spiritt of the age," to the point of finally freeing


### ---Economics-1889-0-09.txt---
political economy from this subjection to an alien
authority. Not only is it fully recognized that "right
divine" has no more to do with economics than with
politics; that men should inquire what is best for
them, in matters of industry equally as in matters of
government, without any presumption from arrangements
supposed to have been made for them; but
the subserviency of temper which, for longer or
shorter times, always survives the breaking of
the bands of authority, has wholly disappeared.
Economics have become as completely freed from
-the trammels of " natural theology," as has geology
from the restraints of "revealed religion," investigators
in either department of inquiry owning no
other obligation than that of declaring the truth as
-they discern it.

The genesis of the doctrine of Laissez-Faire, as
expressing a principle to which is attributed universal
applicability and unqualified validity, might
be variously accounted for. It would seem, on the
first thought, to be the child of economic thinking,
under conception from the theory of a beneficent
order of creation. Yet, as Professor Sidgwick has
intimated, this doctrine might as logically be derived
rfiom a purely pessimistic as from a highly optimistic
view of nature, one economist concluding that nothing
needs to be done but to open and smooth the
way to a return to the natural order, because he
believes that natural order to be wholly beneficent,
while another economist should reach the conclusion
that there is no use in trying to do anything to improve
upon the actual situation, because he believes
the arrangements of the universe to be hopelessly
adverse and malignant.


### ---Economics-1889-0-10.txt---
As a matter of history, I believe that the doctrine
in question had its origin in the conception of nature
as providing all the conditions for the most harmonious
and fortunate development of industrial society
through the spontaneous action of individuals, each
seeking his own interest, upon his own initiative.
The wide acceptance of this doctrine, thus conceived,
was greatly promoted by the fact that the economists
of the first half of the century paid their attention so
largely to questions of money, trade and finance.
The discussion preceding the repeal of the Corn
Laws gave rise to the vehement assertion of the universal
validity of this doctrine on one side of that
great controversy, while, the triumph of the free cOrn
party, and the unquestionably fortunate result of the
reform then effected, added immensely to the prestige
of that principle in every succeeding issue.
Yet, while Laissez-Faire was asserted, in great
breadth, in England, the writers for the reviews exaggerating
the utterances of the professors in the

universities, that doctrine was carefully qualified
by some economists, and was by none held with
such strictness as was given to it in the United
States. Here it was not made the test of economic
orthodoxy, merely. It was used to decide whether a
man were an economist at all. I don't think that
I exaggerate when I say that, among those who
deemed themselves the guardians of the true faith,
it was considered far better that a man should know
nothing about economic literature, and have no interest
whatever in the subject, than that, With any
amount of learning and any degree of honest purpose,
he should have adopted views varying from the
standard that was set up.


### ---Economics-1889-0-11.txt---
Such intolerance was not necessarily due to bigotry.
It was, the rather, involved in the very nature of the
Laissez-Faire doctrine. If that was true, there was
no reason why an economist should have any professional
communion or intercourse with an outsider.
No good could come of it; but only a possible weakening
of faith on the part of disciples and a certain
encouragement to heresy.

But the abandonment of Laissez-Faire, as a principle
of universal application, however strongly individuals
may still maintain it as a general rule of
conduct, at once makes communion and cooperation,
not merely possible, but desirable among economists.
When it is confessed that exceptions, not few or
small, are to be admitted, every thinking man has a
part to take in the discussion; every interested and
intelligent person becomes a possible contributor;
every class of men, whether divided from others
by social or by industrial lines, have something
to say on this subject, which no other class can
say for them, and which no other class can
afford not to hear from them. The characteristic
in stitutions of every nation, the experiences of every
distinct community not only become pertinent to the
subject, but constitute a proper part of the evidence
which is to be gathered, sifted and weighed.
How could it be otherwise than that the throwing
open of this door should at once heighten the popular
interest in political economy, increase the number of
its students, and intensify the instinct of union and
cooperation? The barrier which Laissez-Faire interposed
to economic investigation and speculation
once removed, political economy ceases to be a
finished work, which might have been the product of


### ---Economics-1889-0-12.txt---
one mind alone, and, indeed, by it struck off at a
heat; which might just as well have been done
before the invention of letters as at any later date,
granted only a man with a special interest in the subject
and a special aptitude for that sort of reasoning, a
sort of Pre-Cadmic Ricardo; which might just as well
have been done on an island with a thousand inhabitants,
wholly isolated from the rest of mankind, as
done at the centre of the world's activities and in
contemplation of all that is going on in either hemisphere,
on, every continent; which might just as well
be done among a tribe fresh created by divine power,
without a year's history behind them, as done in the
ripeness of time and the fulness of knowledge. -
That barrier removed, political economy becomes
something which never is, but is always to be, done;
growing with the growing knowledge of the race,
changing, as man, its subject-matter, changes; something
which, in the nature of the case, must be the
work, not of one mind but of many; something to
which every man in his place may contribute, to
which all classes and races of, men must contribute,
if the full truth is to be discovered; something to
which every clime and every age bring gifts all
their own; something to which the history of institutions,
the course of invention, the story of human
experience are not pertinent only but essential.
In such a work who would not wish to join? In
such a work who would not welcome every faithful
and honest helper? With such a field expanding
before us, what wonder that the feeling of fellowship
arises; that the instinct of association, the purpose
of cooperation, draws us together in a union
which is none the less close and intimate because of


### ---Economics-1889-0-13.txt---
wide divergency of views on many points! We are
all laborers together, engaged upon a task of limitless
consequence to our kind. The blunders, the
misconceptions of any truthful man will hinder the
progress of the work less than his honest, hearty
interest in the work will help it on. The blunders,
the misconceptions will be corrected by others, never
fear! The loyal purpose of any man is a positive
force on the side of truth, which is above price.
4s In whatever has been said regarding the doctrine of
Laissez-Faire, I desire not to be misunderstood. [4 am,
with all my heart, a believer in the virtue of freedom,
in the power of individual effort. While it
seems to me that the doctrine which we regard as peculiarly
characteristic of English Political Economy,
has, from the lack of proper qualifications and adaptations
on the part of the economists of that country,
and, still more so, through the arbitrary and wholesale
construction given to it, as imported into
American thought, wrought a great deal of mischief,
I yet accept that doctrine as containing a practical
ruIl of conduct of wide range and high validity; a
rule to which exception should be made only upon
clear grounds of urgent public interest. I believe
that a heavy burden of proof rests upon every proposal
to limit or hamper the free action of individuals.
. I believe that the exceptions to the rule of
absolute unqualified freedom should, like the exceptions
to the old Mosaic law, be admitted, for the
time and for the place, solely by reason of the hardness
of men's hearts and the blindness of men's eyes;
that law should be ever a schoolmaster, leading us
to a larger capacity for self-government and selfdirection;
that the face of mankind should steadily


### ---Economics-1889-0-14.txt---
be turned towards the light of perfect liberty, as the
state which hath the promise of that which iiow is,
and, still more, of that which is to come.
Craving your pardon for this personal episode, I
will, with your indulgence, resume the story of the
great march which political economy has made ill
these later days.

The first. powerful influence which was given to
these studies, after the- substantial completion of
formal [or abstract] political economy, through the
labors of Adam Smith,. Malthus, Ricardo, and the
elder and younger Mill, caine through the passionate
demands of the working classes and the social reformers,
during that period of rapid and violent fermentation
which we know as the Second French

Revolution, compelling the reopening of the question
of the distribution of wealth, which, iii turn, compelled
a re-examination of the postulates of the old
political economy regarding the economic man.
For the purposes of the reasoning of Ricardo, the
elder Mill, and even the younger Mill, in his essays
o01 "Some Unsettled Questions," a purely artificial
being, an economic marionette, constituted simply to
exhibit the action of certain forces in production and
exchange, amply sufficed. That these figures were
highly simple bodies of a single pure substance,
without i nconvenient affections and attractions,
destitute alike of sympathies, apathies and antipathies,
purely abstract and not at all of flesh and
blood, was wholly of advantage for the part they
were to perform; and no one can sufficiently admire
the masterly power and skill with which the English
reasoners of those days marshalled these puppets
and exhibited, through their evolutions, the normal
operations of production and exchange.


### ---Economics-1889-0-15.txt---
But the demand for a thorough treatment of the
questions of distribution, in all their bearings upon
human welfare, required that men should be contemnplated
no longer as mere agents of production

and participants in exchange; that human nature
should be profoundly studied, not so much in its
capacity for action, as in its recipiency, its susceptibility,
its liability to deep and lasting injury. The
verbs which the economist was to conjugate were no
longer only those which mean "cto do," but also,
those which signify "cto be" and "to-suffer." The
marionettes of Ricardo ceased to answer all the uses
of economic reasoning. Real men were to be taken,
in all their strength, but with all their weaknesses;
with their passions and affections, their infirmities
and their aspirations, as in life.

Such was the demand of the new political economy.
Against the indifference or the resistance of the
schools and the reviews, against contumely and proscription,
this re-examaination of the postulates of the
Ricardians went on, hindered at every point because
any. outcome for good seemed cut off by the universal
negative of the accepted doctrine to which we apply
the term, laissez-faire, until about twenty years
ago a mighty force entered, vastly to quicken and
strengthen the economic movement.

Whether the time had so fully come for the announcement
of the great law of Natural Selection,

through the survival of the fittest, in the unceasing
struggle for existence, that the discovery must have
been made, even though one or two mighty prophets
had not arisen in the world of thought, this is not
the place to discuss. Certain it is that the discovery
of this pregnant principle has already wrought as


### ---Economics-1889-0-16.txt---
momentous and far-reaching effects in the study of
economics as in the investigation of early institutions
and of primitive societies. Yet we have gathered
only the first fruits of this marvelous tree of
knowledge which stands in the middle of the garden.
Who can ever forget the thoughts that crowded his,
mind when first he apprehended the significance of
that mighty law?

Then felt I like some watcher of the skies
When a new planet swims into his ken;

Or, like stout Cortez, when with eagle eyes
He stared at the Pacific, and all his men,
Gazed at each other with a wild surmise,
Silent, upon a peak in Darien.

But while thus the public interest in political econ--
omy was vastly increased by the opening of the
whole field of human nature as the subject of its.
inquiries; and while that interest was greatly intensified
by the discovery of this new instrument of'
scientific investigation, the law of natural selection,
another and an even more powerful force was entering
to swell the flood which should not only sweep
away the barriers a series of false assumptions had
interposed against social progress, both economic
and political, but which should bring political economy
to be the one great subject of human interest,
the theme of study and of dispute among all classes,
high and low, in all countries where thought is free*
and men aspire.

At the very time when, under the impulse I have
sought to indicate, the political economists set themselves
to investigate, with pains and care and fidelity,
that human nature which, up to that time, they had
been content to express by a brief and simple formula,


### ---Economics-1889-0-17.txt---
lo! that nature itself began to undergo a profound
and pervasive change on its economic side; a
change so sweeping and far-reaching that it has come
about that the men of certain countries, those of
which we know most and with which we have most
to do, have, for the purposes of economic reasoning,
become, as it were, in the phrase of Burke, a different
species of animal.

The doctrine, ill politics, of the guardianship of the
lower by the upper classes had its perfect counterpart
in the economic doctrine that the employing
class are the natural trustees of the laboring class.
The aristocratic politics of the last century declared
that it did not matter how much power was entrusted
to the privileged classes, since the interests of all,
rich and poor, high and low, were so bound up together
that 1o1 class could suffer and others not suffer with
it; and, consequently, that the class most intelligent,
most apt for government, having the greatest leisure
for public affairs, with, moreover, the largest stake
in the community, might advantageously be trusted
to make and execute all laws, their own interests
inhibiting them from any course of action prejudicial
to the lower classes, who might, theref ore, safely
submit to rule, in the happy assurance that they
could not be in any way injured or oppressed.
Closely analogous to this was the argument by
which, in what I would, without offense, call the
aristocratic economics of the early part of the century,
it was sought to be shown that it was not important,
or, indeed, desirable, that the laboring class
should take any active part in the distribution of
wealth; should feel any responsibility for asserting
and maintaining their own interests in that distribution.


### ---Economics-1889-0-18.txt---
It was gravely and elaborately argued that
all classes of producers were so intimately bound up
together that no one could be made to suffer but all
should straightway suffer with it; that, therefore,
the employing class, alert, intelligent, constantly informed
as to the state of trade, with, moreover, the
largest stake in the result, could safely be left to determine
the proper wages of their workmen, their
own interests requiring them to pay the most that
could, in the condition of the market, possibly be
paid. Nay, the security which the laboring class
enjoyed, under the regime of aristocratic economics,
was, in one respect, superior to that which the lower
classes enjoyed under the regime of aristocratic politics.
In the field of government, the security against
wrong was found only in the retribution suffered by
the ruling classes, a retribution in which the humbler
members of society must also share; but, in the field
of industry, anl additional security to the laboring
classes was derived. from the fact that any undue
profits which their employers might, for a time, realize,
through unjustly beating down wages, would
become, of necessity, a new demand for labor, resulting
in wages proportionately advanced; and thus the
wrong would be automatically and surely righted.
It is only fifteen years since propositions to the
foregoing effect were deliberately and emphatically
re-stated by eminent writers on both sides of the
Atlantic.

What was it which banished aristocratic politics,
not merely from political philosophy but from the
constitutions of Europe, so that, to-day, there is not,
besides Russia, a nation which has not, in the language
of Thucydides, takenn its citizens into partnership


### ---Economics-1889-0-19.txt---
;" not a nation in which the once despised
and downtrodden masses are not the arbiters of ministries,
the promoters of reform, the defenders, for
themselves, of their own rights and interests ? Was
it a change of opinion on the part of the philosophers,
or a change of heart on the part of those who had exercised
privilege and power? Not at all. The false
opinions, in many cases, survived the constitutions in
which they had been incorporated; and no class ever,
wholly of their own choice, surrendered privilege
and power. It was the rising of the people, repudiating
the doctrine of a guardianship over them,
rebelling against abuses, demanding their rights,
effecting reforms by just so much of threats and
force as the resistance of the ruling classes made it
necessary to use.

What was it which so recently caused the downfall
of the economic theory of the Trusteeship of
Capital: a downfall so complete that to-day any
man would be simply laughed at in a convention
of economists were be to announce the doctrine of
the economic indifference of the rate of profits, which
so able a thinker as Professor Cairnes could calmly
re-state but fifteen years ago? Has the result been
due to sounder professional thinking? Again, no.
Again, it is true that the change in opinion followed,
and followed somewhat late, upon changed conditions.
Again, it was the uprising of the classes to
whom economic reasoning had assigned the position
of wards but who, under impulses new to this age,
came forward to allege their competency to manage
their own affairs and conserve their own interests.
The working classes had comee of age," and-called
their late guardians to render an account of their
stewardship.


### ---Economics-1889-0-20.txt---
Little blame is to be charged upon those who, two
centuries or a century ago, held to the doctrine of
the guardianship of the upper classes over the lower.
The constituencies which would have alone have
made a peaceful and well-ordered democracy possible,
then existed in few of the countries of the world.
Little blame is to be charged upon the economists
who, a century or a half a century ago, held to the
doctrine of the Trusteeship of Capital. The bodies
of workmen who should assert their interests in a
close and searching competition with the employing
class, intelligently, temperately, firmly, without danger
to industrial peace and even to the social order,
then existed in but few communities, if any, outside
our own favored land.

Almost universally illiterate, poor, and tax-ridden;
unaccustomed to the communication of thought; without
strong class feeling, without social aspirations,
without political franchises; bred under laws which
had for centuries made it a crime to combine to raise
wages or shorten the hours of labor, which forbade
the emigration of artizans and practically arrested
the movement of agricultural labor to its best market,
the working classes of the England of Ricardo and
James Mill possessed but slight qualifications for
asserting their own interests, positively, aggressively,
pertinaciously, in the distribution of wealth. By consequence,
not because the system to which I have

applied the term, the Trusteeship of Capital, worked
well, for it did not; not because the results were not
always bad and often as hideous as any of the fruits
of the old regime in politics, for they were; but
simply because the constituencies which could alone
have rendered democracy in industry possible did


### ---Economics-1889-0-21.txt---
nlot exist, the working classes were practically compelled
to take whatever should be offered them in
the market for labor.

What a change since then! And what a marvelous
history it is which comprises the causes of that
change in the character and condition of the working
classes of England! The State establishment of saving
banks; the abatement and final removal of the
tax on newspapers; the repeal of the Comnbinatioiis
acts, and the fierce series of industrial battles which
followed the legal recognition of the right of working
men to have something to say about their wages and
the conditions of their employment; the first reformbill;
the institution of Friendly Societies; the mighty
Corn Law debate; the Chartist agitation; the extensive
formation and deep foundation of Trade Unionss;
the remarkable series of parlimentary and royal commllissions
to inquire into the conditions of trade and
industry; organized migration within and emigration
from the Kingdom, and finally, free public education:
these are among the forces which have moved upon
the mhinds of the working classes of England to
qualify them for industrial life.

In all these ways it has come about that the French
of the present generation do not so widely differ in
their political aptitudes and capabilities from the
people whom Tocqueville and Blanqui described, the
wretched victims of the old regime, as do the English
workmen of to-day, in their economic character,
from the ignorant, inert, squalid and hopeless masses
of labor whom Ricardo and James Mill had in view.
This it was that I had in mind when I said that, at
the very time when the political economists first set
themselves seriously to study human nature, for the


### ---Economics-1889-0-22.txt---
purposes of their treatment of the distribution of
wealth, that nature itself was undergoing a profound
and pervasive change on its economic side,
I shall ask your consideration of but one other
cause which has added to the force of the economic
movement in these days; and that is the scientific
spirit now so widely spread abroad, inducing a more
careful observation of phenomena, and assisting to
a sounder interpretation of facts and statistics. Perhaps
the influence of this cause will best be shown
by an example.

In 1872, Mr. David A. Wells, one of the ablest
economic statisticians whom this country has produced,
made a report, as chairman of the Tax

Commission of the State of New York, in which
he said:

"All taxes equate and diffuse themselves; and, if
levied, with certainty and uniformity, upon tangible
property and fixed signs of property, they will, by a
diffusion and repercussion, reach and burden all
visible and also all invisible and intangible property
with unerring certainty and equality."

Again, in 1874, Mr. Wells, in presenting to the
American Social Science Association the general
results of his work, said:

"Taxation diffuses itself; and by laws which it is
beyond the power of man to contravene. L
If they [taxes] are assessed primarily upon Mr. Astor,
he adds them to his rents; if upon Mr. Stewart, to
his goods; upon Mr. Vanderbilt, to the price of his
capital, whether sold upon the street or invested in
railways; and so, being reflected as it were to infinity
or from reflection to reflection, they eventually
become an integral part of the prices of all things."


### ---Economics-1889-0-23.txt---
In such a view of taxation, how simple the problem
of the economist! how easy the work of the legislator!
To the equities of public contribution, to the
industrial prosperity of the community, to the welfare
of the very poor, it makes no difference what
are the subjects taken for imposition or where the
burden falls.

Would it be possible, I ask, for any intelligent
person at the present time to take up and dispose of
the question of taxation in such a fashion? That
sort of economic reason has not only passed away,
under the influence of the scientific spirit of the age,
but it has already drifted back to what seems anl interminable
distance. To-day the ablest American

representative of the English school declares that
taxes, indeed, diffuse themselves, but it is alongg
the lines of least resistance." How tremendous the
difference between the two statements! How sighiificant
that phrase, c least resistance ! "

What a story it tells of individuals and classes who
are at a disadvantage in the unceasing struggle over
the product of industry; pressed down by a competition
to which they are not equal; disabled by poverty,
ignorance, debt and fear, from resorting to their
best market; kept fast in their place, to be cheated
in quality, quantity and price on everything they
have to buy, and, for their wages, compelled to take
whatever may be offered them, at the mercy of
middlemen, slaves to creditors, perhaps the wretched
prisoners of the sweatingg den !"

What a weight of responsibility does this latter
view of taxation, conceived in the true spirit of
modern science, cast upon the legislator, in determilling
the proper subjects of imposition and the


### ---Economics-1889-0-24.txt---
classes upon which fiscal burdens shall first fall!
What a work is laid out for the economist, as,
with all his senses alert, his very soul in strain, he
sounds and tests the public body, to detect indications
of failing resistance to fiscal pressure! What
revelations of weakness and of danger to the state
may not thereby be given to the faithful legislator!
What suggestions, of priceless value to the educator,
may not come from economic investigations undertaken
in this spirit and carried on by the methods of
modern science!

Fellow-members, such, according to my fallible
judgment and very imperfect knowledge, are the
principal causes of the remarkable economic movement
of the past few years. That movement itself
does not require to be proven. A bay, one-half
whose spaces lie bare and baking in the sun, does
not more differ in aspect from that bay, when the
sea comes rolling in, filling it full of boisterous life,
and beating with angry roar upon the rocks which
close it round, than does the economic world of a
few years ago differ from that which we look out
upon to-day.'