School districts in other cities have since adopted similar clearinghouses. Boston
Public Schools, after lengthy study, also adopted a clearinghouse based on the
deferred acceptance algorithm, for students entering in Fall of 2006 (Abdulkadiro˘ glu and Sönmez 2003; Abdulkadiro˘ glu et al. 2005, 2006). An important issue in Boston was how strategy-proofness “leveled the playing field” between families that were sophisticated about the way the school choice mechanism worked, and those who might simply submit their true preferences even when this was not their best course of action (Abdulkadiro˘ glu et al. 2005; Pathak and Sönmez 2008).
65 Subsequently,
my colleagues and I have collaborated on the design of school choice clearing-houses in Denver, Washington, DC, Newark, New Orleans, Camden, Indianapolis, and Chicago.
66 In general, our goal is to enroll both district and charter schools in
a unified enrollment system that will give a single best offer to each student. This is because a big cause of congestion in school assignment occurs when some students are admitted to multiple schools and others must wait for their decision before the unused places become available, and this happens when district schools and charter schools run independent admissions.
67
In many of these cities, the individual schools are not strategic players, and
instead of using preference orderings of students compiled by school principals, the clearinghouse takes as input priority lists established by the school district to determine each student’s priority at each school.
68 These priorities, and even the
menu of schools to which students living in different parts of the city may apply, are subject to changes from time to time. This reflects the fact that which children attend which schools is an intense focus of city politics, and so the priorities that different groups of children have for different schools is part of the school choice process that is perhaps inevitably subject to change over time. I think effective school choice design should seek to put in place a mechanism that allows city politics to do its work of adjusting how school places are distributed among different constituencies, but allows the information provided each year by parents to be effectively elicited and used to place children in schools that will be good for them, with as efficient allocation of school places as possible.
69
65 This reflects an important issue in practical market design, which distinguishes it from the theoretical literature
on mechanism design that is often satisfied with an equilibrium analysis of mechanisms, without considering
what might be required to reach equilibrium, or how to advise participants to choose their strategies. Strategy-proof mechanisms somewhat ease both these concerns (and make it easy to know what to advise participants, although not always how to deliver this advice effectively).
66 The work on these latter cities has been organized through the nonprofit Institute for Innovation in Public
School Choice (IIPSC, http://iipsc.org/), founded by Neil Dorosin, who was the New York City Department of Education’s Director of High School Operations when we helped organize high school choice there. Atila Abdulkadiro˘ glu, Parag Pathak, and I are IIPSC’s Scientific Advisory Board.

67 For example, charter school applications are decentralized in Boston, but centralized and integrated with the
district schools in Denver. There is some suggestive evidence that a unified enrollment system makes it easier for a broader segment of the population to apply to charter schools: charter applicants in Boston have higher average baseline tests score in comparison to the general population (Abdulkadiro˘ glu et al. 2011, Table II and pp. 717–18) while there is no such difference in Denver (Abdulkadiro˘ glu et al. 2017, p. 1381).

68 In some places (and for some schools) students’ priority is determined by their score on an exam. The college
admissions system in China is such a system, in which the allocation algorithms have undergone changes in recent years: see Chen and Kesten (2017).

69 For example, while Boston Public Schools continue to use the deferred acceptance algorithm as originally
designed, concerns arose both about the cost of transportation, and about the scattering of students from some neighborhoods among undesirably many schools. In response, they have restricted the sets of schools to which particular students can apply, and altered the priorities that each student has for each school (Shi 2015). See also Ashlagi and Shi (2016) and Pathak and Shi (2017).

