transfers among countries. The benefits are widely distributed among countries. The
only regions showing losses across several regimes are Eurasia and South Africa;
however, the losses are small relative to gains for other regions. There are no regimes
with aggregate losses.
Look at the distribution of gains and losses to determine whether a Climate Club
would be attractive to most countries relative to existing arrangements. All regions
would prefer a regime with penalties and modest carbon prices to a regime with
no penalties. Paradoxically, this is the case even for countries that do not partici-
pate. The reason is that the gains from strong mitigation measures of participants
outweigh the losses from the tariffs for nonparticipants as long as the tariff rate is
not too high. This powerful result indicates that a regime with sanctions should be
attractive to most regions.
D. Bottom Line
Here is the bottom line: the present study finds that without sanctions there is
no stable climate coalition other than the noncooperative, low-abatement coalition.
This conclusion is soundly based on public-goods theory, on C-DICE model sim-
ulations, on the history of international agreements, and on the experience of the
Kyoto Protocol.
The analysis shows how an international climate treaty that combines target car-
bon pricing and trade sanctions can induce substantial abatement. The modeling
results indicate that modest trade penalties on nonparticipants can induce a coalition
that approaches the optimal level of abatement as long as the target carbon price is up
to $50 per ton at current income and emission levels. The attractiveness of a Climate
Club must be judged relative to the current approaches, where international climate
treaties are essentially voluntary and have little prospect of slowing climate change.
REFERENCES
Aumann, R. J. 1959. "Acceptable Points in General Cooperative N-Person Games." Contributions to
the Theory of Games IV, edited by A. W. Tucker and R. D. Luce, 287-324. Princeton, NJ: Princ-
eton University Press.
Barrett, Scott. 1994. "Self-Enforcing International Environmental Agreements. Oxford Economic  Papers 46 (0): 878-94.
Barrett, Scott. 2003. Environment and Statecraft: The Strategy of Environmental Treaty-Making.
Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press.
Bernheim, B. Douglas, Bezalel Peleg, and Michael D. Whinston. 1987. "Coalition-Proof Nash Equi-
libria: Concepts." Journal of Economic Theory 42 (1): 1-12.
Bordoff, Jason E. 2009. "International Trade Law and the Economics of Climate Policy: Evaluating
the Legality and Effectiveness of Proposals to Address Competitiveness and Leakage Concerns."
In Climate Change, Trade, and Competitiveness: Is a Collision Inevitable? edited by Lael Brain-
ard and Isaac Sorkin, 35-68. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution.  Bosetti, Valentina, Carlo Carraro, Enrica DeCian, Emanuele Massetti, and Massimo Tavoni. 2012.
"Incentives and Stability of International Climate Coalitions: An Integrated Assessment." Energy
Policy 55: 44-56.
Brainard, Lael, and Isaac Sorkin (eds.). 2009. Climate Change, Trade, and Competitiveness: Is a
Collision Inevitable? Washington, DC: Brookings Institution Press.
Buchanan, J. M. 1965. "An Economic Theory of Clubs." Economica NS 32 (0): 1-14.
Carraro, Carlo, and Domenico Siniscalco. 1993. "Strategies for the International Protection of the
Environment." Journal of Public Economics 52 (3): 309-28.
CDIAC. 2014. Carbon Dioxide Infromation Analysis Center, http://cdiac.ornl.gov/.