from poor countries would result in paid donors infiltrating American health care in
contrived guises as spouses and relatives.119
So, GKE, which is still in its earliest stages (six such chains have been accom-
plished as of this writing), is likely to face the full set of complications that kidney exchange has faced around the world. These include not only the market design issues involved in attracting participants, eliciting their information, and resolv-ing analytic, computational, and operational obstacles, but also in garnering social support.
120
In these respects, kidney exchange and its continued development represent
issues that are typical of market design.
VI. Open Questions , Engineering Challenges, and Opportunities
Markets and marketplaces, broadly understood, are woven into the fabric of the
human environment, so opportunities to build new ones are ubiquitous, and there are still many unresolved scientific and engineering questions about how they work, and what makes them work well.
I’ve already mentioned open questions in the context of the particular markets
I’ve discussed. More generally, what are the roles of marketplaces in markets? What properties of transactions, in addition to prices, do marketplaces help deter -
mine? Which markets are adequately organized without a coordinated marketplace (coordinated in time, or space, or both)? For which markets is a centralized mar -
ketplace desirable? For which markets does a centralized clearinghouse (possibly
computer
-assisted) offer additional benefits? Understanding what well-designed
centralized marketplaces can accomplish will also illuminate how decentralized matching markets succeed and fail, how markets mediate inequality, and other ques-tions underlying the organization of market economies.
Computers have begun to play multiple roles in marketplaces, no longer just
as intermediaries or record keepers. “Smart marketplaces” help markets clear in ways that parallel-processing by participants could not. For example, there are com-putationally difficult problems involved in determining optimal kidney matchings, or in selecting optimal combinations of bids to maximize revenue in a complex
119 This brings me back to black markets and harm reduction. Black markets for kidneys, which by law must
be run by criminals, provide little if any subsequent care for donors, and are widely abhorred. (The larger question
of whether compensation for donors should itself be abhorred is more controversial, as discussed earlier.) But if
these illegal markets continue to thrive, should we view the poor medical care that compensated donors receive as a feature of the efforts to discourage compensation, or as a bug in our efforts to save potential kidney donors from exploitation and harm? I see parallels between this objection to GKE (which might possibly result in some paid donors receiving first-world medical care) and the debate about whether drug addicts should be protected from infection and overdose by harm reduction efforts like needle exchange and safe injection facilities, or whether those harms should be regarded as part of society’s efforts to discourage drug use.

120 I am encouraged in this endeavor by the support GKE has received in the countries from which patient-do-
nor pairs have come. For example, see Carillo (2017), who reports on the first Mexican GKE pair in Newsweek en
Español, in a cover story called “Un Puente de Vida,” a bridge of life. (The first sentence, translated: “At the same time that US President Donald Trump is seeking to build a wall of thousands of miles on the border with Mexico, a tireless surgeon and a renowned economist join forces to exchange organs between citizens of both countries.”) GKE has also received support from the American Society of Transplant Surgeons (see http://marketdesigner.blogspot.com/2017/10/global-kidney-exchange-endorsed-by.html) and Italy has proposed that it be adopted by the World Health Organization (see http://marketdesigner.blogspot.com/2018/01/italy-recommends-global-kidney-exchange.html).