it difficult for them to bill each other for their costs). Proposals to overcome such
frictions have to date been implemented only partially (see Rees et al. 2012).
Fumo et al. (2015) discuss many incremental design changes made over the
years by the APD. Many of these were related to the fact that an optimized kidney exchange involves many particular proposed transplants, each of which has to be individually approved by the surgeons and patients and donors involved. It can take time to get these approvals, and there were initially many rejections of proposed transplants, which made the kidney exchange process slow, and the marketplace congested.
Some sources of congestion and declined transplants were relatively simple to
fix, e.g., by promptly updating the database so that no time is wasted proposing transplants for patients who may have already received a deceased donor transplant, or died.
106 Other sources of delay through rejected offers were more complex.
Surgeons’ preferences over kidneys are not so easy to elicit, because a kidney and its donor have many properties that can interact. It is difficult to entice surgeons to review in advance potential kidneys that they may never be offered: consequently many kidneys that are medically compatible may nevertheless be rejected. We have made partial progress on this by introducing a threshold language that allows sur -
geons to constrain the set of compatible kidneys that they can be offered, so that offers are more likely to be accepted.
107
A different set of operational problems arose as transplant centers became accus-
tomed to kidney exchange. Directors of transplant centers have bigger strategy sets than individual surgeons, since they see multiple patient-donor pairs and can choose which ones to enroll in an interhospital exchange. Ashlagi and Roth (2014) note that transplant centers may have incentives to withhold their easy to match patient-donor pairs from the interhospital exchanges, and transplant them internally, and Agarwal et al. (2017, 2018) observe that this is in fact happening to a surprisingly large degree (they report that more than one-half of kidney exchanges are done inter -
nally).
108 This reduces the thickness of the inter-hospital kidney exchange market-
places, not only because it reduces the number of pairs that they enroll, but because it means that those that do enroll may have difficulty finding donors and recipients
106 This kind of congestion, involving time-consuming efforts to match with many possible partners, some of
whom may no longer be available, is found in many kinds of matching markets, from dating sites to labor markets
(see, e.g., Arnosti, Johari, and Kanoria 2016). Other sources of delay involved the blood and serum samples that must be exchanged to verify that a proposed transplant that looks feasible from the available data is in fact feasible, and some of these were addressed by centralizing the blood work done for the APD.

107 Using thresholds in this way substantially reduces but by no means eliminates discretionary rejections of
proposed transplants. For example, in an effort to be offered many possible transplants, a surgeon may indicate that kidneys for a particular patient will be considered, e.g., from donors up to age 60, and with slightly higher than optimal blood pressure or weight, and slightly suboptimal kidney function, etc., only to reject proposed transplants that meet all of those stated constraints. The reason of course is that preferences are over combinations of attributes: when the surgeon specified a 59-year-old donor would be acceptable, he or she had in mind a former Olympic athlete who had stayed in perfect shape, and for a donor with elevated blood pressure a 25-year-old is desired, etc.

108 Ashlagi and Roth (2014) note that some of these disincentives can be removed by changing the allocation
algorithm to give “frequent flier” priority to pairs from transplant centers that enroll easy to match pairs. NKR was the first kidney exchange network to subsequently introduce such priorities, but this is not yet widespread, except for keeping track in this way of centers that enroll non-directed donors to initiate chains of transplants. In another use of priorities, Israel has started to incentivize deceased donation by giving priority on the waiting list to people who are registered donors, and to the family members of deceased donors (see Stoler et al. 2016, 2017).