with the exception of some counties in Nevada, and a period of legal indoor prosti-
tution in Rhode Island from about 2003 to 2009, following a 2003 judicial decision involving an apparent oversight in an amended anti-prostitution law that defined prostitution as involving outdoor solicitation, which was rectified in 2009 to make both the buying and selling of sex illegal in any venue.
There is evidence that decriminalization confers some harm reduction.
Cunningham and Shah (forthcoming) report that the period in which indoor pros-titution thrived in Rhode Island resulted in fewer sexual crimes and lower rates of sexually transmitted disease. Similar results regarding crime in the Netherlands are reported by Bisschop, Kastoryano, and van der Klaauw (2017) following the establishment of regions (“tippelzones”) in which licensed prostitutes could legally solicit customers on the street.
The market for sex has many marketplaces.
89 It appears that outdoor solicita-
tion (“streetwalking”) is the most dangerous of these for sex workers, in terms of
encounters both with violent customers and with law enforcement.90 Some of the
more discreet markets are hard for law enforcement to successfully prosecute.
For example, Elliott Spitzer resigned as Governor of New York State after just one
year, after being reported as a customer of an “escort agency” called the Emperor’s Club.
91 Only the organizer of that agency was convicted of a crime. But although
Spitzer was never charged, the repugnance felt toward prostitution is reflected in the speed with which his political career ended. The New York Times broke the story on March 10, 2008 with the headline “Spitzer Is Linked to Prostitution Ring.”
92 Just
two days later, the headline was “Spitzer Resigns, Citing Personal Failings.”93
Part of the negative reaction to Spitzer’s patronization of prostitutes was that he
had prosecuted prostitution when he was Attorney General. One of the organizations Spitzer had prosecuted adopted the market design that gives rise to the expression “call girls.” It operated by phone, and customers called to arrange that sex workers would come to them.
The internet has provided the newest marketplaces for prostitution, and between
2002 and 2010 one of the most active internet marketplaces was Craigslist’s “erotic services” ads. Craigslist eventually closed this section in response to pressure from legal authorities who threatened prosecution for violating the anti-prostitution laws. However, Cunningham, DeAngelo, and Tripp (2017) use the different times at which this service was introduced in different cities to estimate that it reduced the female homicide rate by 17 percent. They attribute this to a reduction in street solicitation, as prostitutes who would formerly have tried to find clients outdoors were able to
89 In addition to the marketplaces for sexual acts discussed here, there are also marketplaces for pornography,
i.e., for the depiction of sexual acts (Edelman 2009).

90 Potterat et al. (2004) estimate that the workplace homicide rate for female prostitutes in Colorado is 204 per
100,000.

91 “Escort agency” is both a euphemism and an indication of why prostitution can sometimes be a hard market to
prevent. Escort agencies purport to sell nothing more than companionship, and there are few remaining laws about
what adult companions can consent to do with each other.

92 Danny Hakim and William K. Rashbaum, “Spitzer Is Linked to Prostitution Ring,” New York Times, March
10, 2008, http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/10/nyregion/10cnd-spitzer.html.

93 Michael M. Grynbaum, “Spitzer Resigns, Citing Personal Failings,” New York Times, March 12, 2008, http://
www.nytimes.com/2008/03/12/nyregion/12cnd-resign.html