socially establisllecl ellds to be attailled b5J competition
deterluille the kincl of men who will sllrvive il] competition.
Let lne offer an illustratioll. To-clay the
civil service of the modern nation fllrllislles all opportzlIlity
for a livelilloocl to a coIlsiclerable percelltat,e of
tl-le population. Competition for adlnissioll to the civil
service in orcler tllerebv to secure a support is fsDllud
when ore have the so-callecl spoils s) stem, ancl the CON1-
petition is illtense allcl frequently bitter. This coonpetiti
5.7e COllteSt iSSlleS in the stlrival of lnen with qualitites
lcnowll to llS all. Civil service reforul does .lOt remove
competition; on the cos]trary it extellels coltlpetil;ioll,
hll-t the dift'erence in metllocls proclllces corresponclilzg
differences in reslllts. On the one llallel, the extension
of colnpetition lessells bitterlless, because it is luore in
in collsonallce with otlr ethical dellland :For equality of
o?portllllity, allcl the clifference in colnpetitive tests for
succes;s, issues in the stlrvirral of nlen with qualitites of
another sort froln those wllicll collle to the top utacler
tll£ spoils sstelll, ancl with qualities, luost of lls will
sa, of a lligller killel.
Competition increasingly comes to mean worthy
struggle, and trlle progress implies that sllccess will be
secllred llel-eafter b5J collfornlity to lligller ancl ever
hig-ller, l]obler and ever jlobler icleas.
SiTr..@lfrecl Rlls.sel \Alullace alad Professor Ivester F.
WAlarcl have called attention to the sl1periority of man's
selectioll to llatt-lre's selectiool. Professor Ward has
thus e=xpressed the idea: " The ecollolllics of natllre
COllSiStS, tllel-efOl-e, eSSelltially in the operatioll of the
law of competition in its pllrest forln. The prevailing
iclea, llosrever, that it is tl-le fittest possible that survive
in this struggle is wholly false. The effect of competition
iS to prevellt ally form from attaillillg its lnaxinlum
developlllellt, and to mailltain a comparitively low