looselvZ forlnecl groups of eluployer.s pursllilag colulllon
purposes; and al.so grollps of Rrol-kil-gollen likewise
seeking to promote comltloll interests. Agailn we llotice
a pernlallent orgailization of labor on the OI1t hand
allcl of capital on the other. Tllell we cliscover political
association.s embracillg zalitlli n themselves all illSllite
variety of competitive ^rollps; and the.se political associations
tl-lemselves llaving competitive features extend
from the szlall l-lamlet to the illiolaty lzatioll. T3ut coln
?etitioll cloes not stalld alolle. WAlitll it are associatecl
sympatlly, benevoletlce, and plllDllc authority. Moreover,
wisely clirected llulllallitariaoli.sm stren<gtllells each
group, while rutl-lless selfisla*1ess a<nong tile uleolll:)er.s of
the grotlp gradually destroy s poaTer iil competition.
The larger the col-upetitixTe gl-OUp, the M7idel- beCOllleS
tlae splle1-e for ,-enetovsity, -the la1-ger the safe scope of
pity, ancl the luilder Illay the coznpetition l)ecolne for
the individt1al. WAlittless nor tl-le progress of llloclern
nations in pllilantllropy attellcls groNTi11g efficiency in
their ecotlomio struggles. I1lterlaational coz;olpetition is
a stern fact of ollr tinoe. Is it 1lot eqv1al'y a fact that
the onost potellt nations in this great drazozatic world
wide struggle of interests are precisely those natiolzs in
wllicll sre find the l igllest inclisticltlal ancl social development
of altruistll ? As.sociation aacl coot)eratioll,
the llealing touch, beIlevolellce, love, are all compatible
nvitll competition.
Fear has sometillles been exlDressed lest the llurllanitarian
side of social evolution slloulcl lead to weaklless
alzcl cleo-enel-atioiz) and the avvorlcl lDe cotls erted into
Goetlle's vast llospital. Sllcll apprellelesioll, I lDelieve)
cloes not rest UpOIl a critical analysis of the fol-ces at
work in tnodern civilization. It is true that l:enevo
lence) manifesteci in allcl tllrotlgll progress, may keep
alive sollae weak illclividuals, NV410 in a harsher age