lars to be effective must deal vith them as they
e>cist in classes. And, moreover, no class exists for
itself. As society becomes real and vitcal, and mecans
more and more to tIS all, it becomes app)at-ent that no one
class exists for itself, an cl that no one class can exist
apart from all other clclsse<;. YVhile there is sud] a thing
as vicious legislation in behalf of a fesT favored individuals,
hatever promotes tl-le interests of any one of the great
and ntlmerous classes in society, either itl rncltters physical,
mental, moral or spiritual, advance, the interests of
evel-y othel class. '; RiVe are members Otle of a1lotller," and
" tl-le eye cannot say UlltO the hand, I have no need of
thee: IlOi- again the head to the feet, I laave no need of
you aIld wrlletller one metuber sufi-ers, all the
membel-s suffer with it: or one n-lember be hollored all
tIae In embers rej oice xvitll it " . Tll e apoqtle- Paul gives in
in these srlords an expreCsioil to ca deep principle of modern
illdllstricll society, the princilDle of social solidarity.
I llcave sketched tll us hastily ca theory of illdustria
liberty. What I have said, I wotlld have looked LIpO]l
as thougllts on industrial liberty, mol-e or less closely
eo1lnected. I have not even attempted an exllaustive
treatmetlt, for hich m+ time is coo lirnited, even hcld 1[:,
as I have not, the wisdom for a complete preszntatiotl.
I trust, llowe.vcJr, that what I hclve preSented is in
harmony sVitTl indtlstricll evolution a11(J trtltn. It is
sometllillg, at atly 1-ate, if I have at least made it clea.r
that indtlstl-ial liberty is a conception laaving a relative
and not an absolute value; that it is to be conceived in
a poxitive latl-ler than in a negative sense; that it is olOt
something svllich can be decreed off-lland, by any lebis
lative body, but ratller that it is a social product, to be
achieved by individuals worki1lg 50cially together, and
that it comes, not all at once, but slovly as the result of
a long continued atld arduous process. It is IlOt the beginning
of social evolution, but ratller one of the goals