thl1siastic political ecollol1list write an epic 01l ' Slle
Colusecratioll of Cailnibalistll' 9 ' 1
On the other llallcl listetl to Lllese worcls by a sturcly
Alnericall wlzose coul-age in delatonciatioll of wrolzg in
lait,-ll places no ol-we cail l-iglltly ilnpl1gll:
" The competition of eco11olloies is 1lOt the so-callec1
coml)>titiotl of our breat cellters svllere lnell strive to
drive lllel-l to the srall, l)ut tl-le coollpesitioll which leaves
each in fl1ll possessiotl of that proc1toctive power nvllicl
best Illlites his labol- nvitll tlze labor of others.
Colnpetitiolo is 1]0 mol-e trespass tllaol it is tlleft. 1:t i
the recollciliatioll of me;l in those productive proD
cesses wllicll issl1e in tile lart,-e.st a^,gregate of wealth.
It is 1lOt crowcliIlg lnel-l oaff their feet, btlt a means of
platitilig 11e1I1 llpOll tl-leir feet." q
T1lese ql1otatio1ls colold be nat1ltiplied i1ldefinitely on
the ol-e sicle and 01l the other. AVe IS1ld it asserted on
tlae o1ze laand tlaat colupetitiotl is slnft1l warfale; that
it is iicliisiokl distonion, every lllan for l-lilnself, every
mal1 ao-aiast his brotl1er "; 3 O11 the otl1er haz1d that it is
lnutual service; that it is altrtliDlll of a .superiol- quality;
tl1at it is tt1e essenee of the golclel1 lllle; tl1at it is loving
our neiglll:)or as ollrselves in other A7ord.s, that a correet
rellderi nt, of Christian love is eolllpetition . 4
Apparently sllell eolltl-aclietory views admit of no
eeolleiliatioll. But when we think seriously about tile
matter, we al-e foreecl to ask ourselves tl1e question:
now is it possible tl1at men of ulldoubted eapaeity, of
utlqtlestiolled sineerity, of warm enthusiasm for l1unallitr'
eala hold views respeeting eompetition, this
1 Cllal-les Kingsley in Cheap Clothes and Nasty, printed with Alton
Locke, vol i, pp. 82-3.
2 John BASCOln 011 The Moral Discipline of Business. Tke Xingdo>
MilllleapOliS, NIAy, I896.
3 Kingsley, 1. c., p. I04.
4 Edward AtlSinson on Cooperative Cotnpetition. EMze lMew WorZds
Septelilber, I895.
