would have perisaled, atlcl that these weak individllals
may take part in the propagation of the species, eventually
leaving behilld an enfeeblecl progelay. Bllt with
all its milcllless, civilization lessells tlnfit reprodllction,
allcl, upon the nvhole, cloe.s so to all ever-ilacreasing extellt.
It plltS the feeble-minded in aswlums, and cliscourages
the Inarl-iage of paupers; vllile in its new attitucle
towarcls tl-le crimillal classes it shoNrs an increasilog
inclillation to cletain them until it receives ex idellce
that their malacly is curecl. AXIol-eover, by sanitatioll
anct other lneasllres, luoderll cinrilization il-lcreases tl-le
stren<$-tll al-lcl vigor of those Nllo do survive. Conlparisons
of civilizecl men with sasZages ancl xTVritll semi-civilizecl
peoples, rexreal the sllperiority of the foruler in
physical vigor. It is prolalDle that never in the world's
history have there been men allcl women whose aerage
of efficient strellgth in the ecollolllic sphere was so great
as that of the well ancl srolnell who toclay inllabit German,
Blltlancl, allcl the Ullitecl States of America.
Competition is the chief selective process in uloclern
economic society, ancl tllrollt,-h it we lla;e the surxistal
of the fit. But s^that clo ve llleall by " the fit " ? Msle
all knosar toclay that fitness 1laS reference silnply to conditions
of a particlllar time and place. Bold and aggressive
pirates avere at one tinle fit -for survival9 but
no^r they are likely to coone to an 1lntimely and i-llomilliolls
encl. AIoderll society itself establislles, consciollsly
or uncollsciollsly, nlany of the conditions of the
struggle for existence, ancl it is for societr to create such
economic conditions that otlly desirable social qualities
shall collstitllte elllillent fitlaess for survival. A kind of
society is possilDle, in wllicll the beggar has this fitlless,
svhile the conditions in another society nlay be most Ullfavorable
to the growth of parasitical classes.
The socially established competitive metllods and the