as a natul-al plaee to find aid and eomfort. It is only
another formlllation of the same proposition, a sort of
synthesis, so to speak, of these two elements, when we
say it is the ollteollle of a rising standard of edueation in
gel]eral in the colnlllUtlity at large, and of all inereasing
lDelief in the value of a speeial, teellriieal, professional
edueation in all departlllellts in N7hieh sueh training ean
be of use.

TIle general tetldelley tlltls deseribed l-las shown
itself of late in all eivilized eoulltries alike; England,
Franee, Gerlnany, Belgillm, Austria, ete. The new
Teaelling Ulliversitr of :Lollclon has reeognized the
existence of this need in moclerll Etlglish soeiety and
provicled for its satisfaetioll by establishing a separate
alld cli.stinet faelllty.2
TIle U^niversity of I+eipsie has approved the experiD
lnellt by aeeordill, a valuable and strikil-]g reeot,nition
to this movement.3
Belgillnl has giell the Inoxrelllellt a legal statlls by
provicling for sellools of Colllluercial Seiellees in tvvo or
three of its universitie.s, allel by raising the Colnollereial
Institute of Alltwerp to the rank of a University Faeulty.4
1 Cf. no. to in list of ulonographs, etc., l-elatilng to comlllel-cial
educalioll appellcled to this article.
2 The Univel-sitJ7 of London Act of I898 and the Statutes made for
the Uiliversity of London by the Conlulissiollers appointed under the
said act (prizIted Fehrtlartr I6, I900), provide for a special Faculty of
Econonlics and Political Science (includillg conlmerce and industry).
Tl-Lis faculty in its oz-igillal form consisted of tell members.
Cf. also Regulatiolis ulade for the Univea-sity of Lonclon by the
Colllmissiollers under the University of Londoll Act of I898. (Printed
MAl-Ch I st, I 900 ) .
3 Cf Erster Jahresbericht der Ha.lldelshochschule zu Leipzig.
Leipzig I899.

4 Cf. Ecole des Sciences Commerciales et Consttlaires. Universite
Catholique de Lvuvaill. Louvain I900. Also: Universite de Lieges
Bstraits des dispositiolls legislatives, etc. Liege I900. (page 57).